Hospital observation care discharge.
Hospital observation care typically 50 minutes.
Hospital observation care typically 70 minutes per day.
Initial hospital inpatient care, typically 30 minutes per day.
Initial hospital inpatient care, typically 50 minutes per day.
Initial hospital inpatient care, typically 70 minutes per day.
Subsequent observation care, typically 25 minutes per day.
Subsequent hospital inpatient care, typically 25 minutes per day.
Subsequent hospital inpatient care, typically 35 minutes per day.
Hospital discharge day management, 30 minutes or less.
Hospital discharge day management, more than 30 minutes.
Critical care delivery critically ill or injured patient, first 30-74 minutes.
Pathology examination of tissue using a microscope, moderately low complexity.
Pathology examination of tissue using a microscope, intermediate complexity.
Special stained specimen slides to identify organisms including interpretation and report.
Special stained specimen slides to examine tissue including interpretation and report.
Surgical pathology consultation and report.
Special stained specimen slides to examine tissue.
Tissue or cell analysis by immunologic technique.
Antibody evaluation.
Microscopic genetic analysis of tumor.
Preparation of specimen, manual.
Aspiration and/or injection of major joint or joint capsule with recording and reporting using ultrasound guidance.
Injections of substances into lower or sacral spine.
Injections of anesthetic and/or steroid drug into lower or sacral spine nerve root using imaging guidance.
Fluoroscopic guidance for spine or spinal canal injection.
New patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 45 minutes.
New patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 60 minutes.
Established patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 15 minutes.
Established patient office or other outpatient, visit typically 25 minutes.
Established patient office or other outpatient, visit typically 40 minutes.
Insertion of central venous catheter for infusion, patient 5 years or older.
Subsequent observation care, typically 35 minutes per day.
Subsequent hospital inpatient care, typically 15 minutes per day.
Initial nursing facility visit, typically 25 minutes per day.
Initial nursing facility visit, typically 35 minutes per day.
Subsequent nursing facility visit, typically 15 minutes per day.
Subsequent nursing facility visit, typically 25 minutes per day.
Nursing facility discharge management, more than 30 minutes.
Ultrasound pelvis through vagina.
New patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 30 minutes.
Cervical or vaginal cancer screening; pelvic and clinical breast examination.
Screening papanicolaou smear; obtaining, preparing and conveyance of cervical or vaginal smear to laboratory.
Deep biopsy of muscle.
New patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 20 minutes.
Established patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 10 minutes.
Hemoglobin A1C level.
Vaccine for influenza for injection into muscle.
Pneumococcal vaccine for injection into muscle.
Vaccine for influenza administered into muscle to individuals 3 years of age and older.
Routine electrocardiogram (EKG) using at least 12 leads with interpretation and report.
Established patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 5 minutes.
Administration of influenza virus vaccine.
Administration of pneumococcal vaccine.
Annual wellness visit, includes a personalized prevention plan of service (pps), subsequent visit.
Urinalysis, manual test.
Vaccine for pneumococcal polysaccharide for injection beneath the skin or into muscle, patient 2 years or older.
Routine EKG using at least 12 leads including interpretation and report.
Transitional care management services, moderately complexity, requiring face-to-face visits within 14 days of discharge.
Transitional care management services, highly complexity, requiring face-to-face visits within 7 days of discharge.
Annual wellness visit; includes a personalized prevention plan of service (pps), initial visit.
Ultrasound measurement of bladder capacity after voiding.
Diagnostic examination of the bladder and bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Removal of foreign body, stone, or stent from bladder canal (urethra) or bladder using an endoscope.
Insertion of stent in urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Crushing of stone in urinary duct (ureter) with stent using an endoscope.
Imaging of urinary tract.
Ultrasound of rectum.
Ultrasonic guidance imaging supervision and interpretation for insertion of needle.
Automated urinalysis test.
Harvest of veins for coronary artery bypass procedure using an endoscope.
Heart artery bypass to repair one artery.
Ultrasonic guidance during surgery.
Interpretation and report of heart ultrasound examination using esophageal probe.
Anesthesia for lens surgery.
Anesthesia for procedure to correct abnormal heart rhythm.
Anesthesia for open or endoscopic total knee joint replacement.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerves, muscles, tendons, fascia, and bursae of forearm, wrist, and hand.
Shaving of shoulder bone using an endoscope.
Repair of shoulder rotator cuff using an endoscope.
Physical therapy evaluation.
Physical therapy re-evaluation.
Therapeutic exercise to develop strength, endurance, range of motion, and flexibility, each 15 minutes.
Therapeutic procedure to re-educate brain-to-nerve-to-muscle function, each 15 minutes.
Manual (physical) therapy techniques to 1 or more regions, each 15 minutes.
Injection beneath the skin or into muscle for therapy, diagnosis, or prevention.
Smoking and tobacco cessation counseling visit for the asymptomatic patient; intermediate, greater than 3 minutes, up to 10 minutes.
External EKG recording for more than 48 hours up to 21 days.
Review and interpretation of external EKG recording for more than 48 hours up to 21 days.
Insertion of needle into vein for collection of blood sample.
Evaluation, testing, and programming adjustment of permanent single lead pacemaker system with physician analysis, review, and report.
Evaluation, testing, and programming adjustment of permanent dual lead pacemaker system with physician analysis, review, and report.
Evaluation, testing and programming adjustment of defibrillator with analysis, review and report.
Ultrasound examination of heart including color-depicted blood flow rate, direction, and valve function.
Follow-up or limited ultrasound examination of heart.
Insertion of catheter for imaging of heart blood vessels or grafts.
Biopsy of single growth of skin and/or tissue.
Destruction of skin growth.
Destruction of 15 or more skin growths.
Destruction of up to 14 skin growths.
Skin application of tar and ultraviolet B or petrolatum and ultraviolet B.
Injection, betamethasone acetate 3 mg and betamethasone sodium phosphate 3 mg.
Injection, triamcinolone acetonide, not otherwise specified, 10 mg.
Anesthesia for procedure on gastrointestinal tract using an endoscope.
Therapeutic activities to improve function, with one-on-one contact between patient and provider, each 15 minutes.
Electrical stimulation (unattended), to one or more areas for indication(s) other than wound care, as part of a therapy plan of care.
Walking training to 1 or more areas, each 15 minutes.
Injections of trigger points in 3 or more muscles.
Injections of substances into upper or middle spine.
Destruction of lower or sacral spinal facet joint nerves using imaging guidance.
Destruction of lower or sacral spinal facet joint nerves with imaging guidance.
Tracing of electrical activity of heart using 1-3 leads with interpretation and report.
Testing of autonomic (sympathetic) nervous system function, at least 5 minutes of tilt.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted complex spinal cord or peripheral neurostimulator generator system during or after surgery, first hour.
Psychological testing with interpretation and report by computer.
Drug tests(s), presumptive, any number of drug classes; any number of devices or procedures, (eg immunoassay) capable of being read by direct optical observation only (eg, dipsticks, cups, cards, cartridges), includes sample validation when performed, per.
Drug tests(s), presumptive, any number of drug classes; any number of devices or procedures by instrumented chemistry analyzers utilizing immunoassay, enzyme assay, TOF, MALDI, LDTD, DESI, DART, GHPC, GC mass spectrometry), includes sample validation when.
Drug test def 22+ classes.
Injection, dexamethasone sodium phosphate, 1 mg.
Low osmolar contrast material, 200-299 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Low osmolar contrast material, 300-399 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Electrical stimulation for guidance with injection of chemical for destruction of muscles.
Injection, onabotulinumtoxina, 1 unit.
Ultrasonic guidance for administration of radiation therapy.
CT scan guidance for insertion of radiation therapy fields.
Management of radiation therapy, complex.
Management of radiation therapy simulation, simple.
Management of radiation therapy, simulation, complex.
Management of radiation therapy, 3D.
Calculation of radiation therapy dose.
Management of modulation radiotherapy planning.
Radiation therapy plan.
Special radiation therapy planning.
Radiation treatment devices, design and construction, simple.
Radiation treatment devices, design and construction, complex.
Radiation therapy consultation per week.
Design and construction of device for radiation therapy.
Therapeutic radiology port films.
Radiation treatment management, 5 treatments.
Special radiation treatment procedure.
High dose brachytherapy , more than 12 channels.
Stereoscopic x-ray guidance for localization of target volume for the delivery of radiation therapy.
Radiation treatment delivery,3 or more separate treatment areas, custom blocking, tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, compensators, electron beam; 6-10 mev.
Radiation treatment delivery,3 or more separate treatment areas, custom blocking, tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, compensators, electron beam; 11-19 mev.
Intensity modulated treatment delivery, single or multiple fields/arcs,via narrow spatially and temporally modulated beams, binary, dynamic mlc, per treatment session.
Emergency department visit, moderately severe problem.
Emergency department visit, problem of high severity.
Emergency department visit, problem with significant threat to life or function.
Aspiration and/or injection of large joint or joint capsule.
X-ray of shoulder, minimum of 2 views.
X-ray of hip with pelvis, 2-3 views.
X-ray of knee, 3 views.
X-ray of knee, 4 or more views.
X-ray of ankle, minimum of 3 views.
Hyaluronan or derivative, synvisc or synvisc-one, for intra-articular injection, 1 mg.
Psychotherapy, 60 minutes with patient and/or family member.
Bone density measurement using dedicated X-ray machine.
Colorectal cancer screening; fecal occult blood test, immunoassay, 1-3 simultaneous.
Blood glucose (sugar) test performed by hand-held instrument.
Shock wave crushing of kidney stones.
Insertion of indwelling bladder catheter.
Insertion of electronic device into bladder with voiding pressure studies.
Electronic assessment of bladder emptying.
Non-needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles at bladder and bowel openings.
Insertion of device into the abdomen with measurement of pressure and urine flow rate.
Destruction of (less than 0.5 centimeters) growths of the bladder and bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Dilation of bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Destruction of prostate tissue through bladder canal (urethra).
Ultrasound of pelvis.
Electronic analysis of implanted brain spinal cord or peripheral neurostimulator generator system.
Injection of drug or substance into a vein for therapy, diagnosis, or prevention.
Hormonal anti-neoplastic chemotherapy administration beneath the skin or into muscle.
Injection, ceftriaxone sodium, per 250 mg.
Injection, garamycin, gentamicin, up to 80 mg.
Leuprolide acetate (for depot suspension), 7.5 mg.
Chiropractic manipulative treatment, 3 to 4 spinal regions.
CT scan head or brain.
CT scan of face.
MRI scan brain.
MRI scan of brain before and after contrast.
X-ray of chest, 1 view, front.
X-ray of chest, 2 views, front and side.
X-ray of ribs of one side of body, 2 views.
CT scan chest.
CT scan chest with contrast.
CT scan of blood vessels in chest with contrast.
X-ray of spine of neck, 2 or 3 views.
X-ray of upper spine, 4 or 5 views.
X-ray of middle spine, 3 views.
X-ray of lower and sacral spine, 2 or 3 views.
X-ray of lower and sacral spine, minimum of 4 views.
CT scan of upper spine.
CT scan of lower spine.
MRI scan of upper spinal canal.
MRI scan of middle spinal canal.
MRI scan of lower spinal canal.
MRI scan of lower spinal canal before and after contrast.
X-ray of elbow, minimum of 3 views.
X-ray of forearm, 2 views.
X-ray of wrist, minimum of 3 views.
X-ray of hand, minimum of 3 views.
CT scan of arm.
MRI scan of arm joint.
X-ray of hip with pelvis, 1 view.
X-ray of knee, 1 or 2 views.
X-ray of lower leg, 2 views.
X-ray of foot, minimum of 3 views.
CT scan leg.
MRI scan of leg joint.
X-ray of abdomen, single view.
Imaging of abdomen.
CT scan of abdomen and pelvis.
CT scan of abdomen and pelvis with contrast.
CT scan of abdomen and pelvis before and after contrast.
Ultrasound of head and neck.
Ultrasound of abdomen.
Ultrasound behind abdominal cavity.
Ultrasound behind abdominal cavity, limited.
Bone and/or joint imaging, whole body.
Ultrasound scanning of blood flow (outside the brain) on both sides of head and neck.
Ultrasound study of arteries and arterial grafts of both legs.
Ultrasound scan of veins of both arms or legs including assessment of compression and functional maneuvers.
Ultrasound scan of veins of one arm or leg or limited including assessment of compression and functional maneuvers.
Ultrasound scan of abdominal, pelvic, and/or scrotal arterial inflow and venous outflow.
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when administered to individuals 3 years of age and older, for intramuscular use (fluvirin).
Aspiration and/or injection of small joint or joint capsule.
Aspiration and/or injection of medium joint or joint capsule.
Skin test for tuberculosis.
Infusion into a vein for therapy, prevention, or diagnosis up to 1 hour.
Non-hormonal anti-neoplastic chemotherapy beneath the skin or into muscle.
Infusion of chemotherapy into a vein up to 1 hour.
Infusion of chemotherapy into a vein.
Injection, denosumab, 1 mg.
Injection infliximab, 10 mg.
Injection, methylprednisolone sodium succinate, up to 125 mg.
Injection, vitamin b-12 cyanocobalamin, up  to 1000 mcg.
Infusion, normal saline solution , 250 cc.
Methotrexate sodium, 5 mg.
Therapeutic removal of whole blood to correct blood level imbalance.
Injection, testosterone cypionate, 1 mg.
Fitting and insertion of vaginal support device.
Pessary, non rubber, any type.
Injection, ketorolac tromethamine, per 15 mg.
CT scan of abdominal and pelvic blood vessels with contrast.
X-ray of esophagus.
Imaging for evaluation of swallowing function.
Ultrasound of transplanted kidney.
Ultrasound limited scan of abdominal, pelvic, and/or scrotal arterial inflow and venous outflow.
MRA scan of head blood vessels.
MRI scan of upper spinal canal before and after contrast.
MRI scan of pelvis.
MRI scan of arm.
MRI scan of leg.
CT scan abdomen before and after contrast.
MRI scan of abdomen.
MRI scan of abdomen before and after contrast.
Repair of knee joint.
Emergency department visit, low to moderately severe problem.
Application of medication through skin using electrical current, each 15 minutes.
Application of ultrasound to 1 or more areas, each 15 minutes.
Measurement and recording of brain wave (EEG) activity, awake and drowsy.
Measurement and recording of brain wave (EEG) activity, awake and asleep.
Biopsy of each additional growth of skin and/or tissue.
Destruction of 2-14 skin growths.
Self-care or home management training, each 15 minutes.
Hemodialysis procedure with one physician evaluation.
Dialysis services (4 or more physician visits per month), patient 20 years of age and older.
Dialysis services (2-3 physician visits per month), patient 20 years of age and older.
Dialysis services (1 physician visit per month), patient 20 years of age and older.
Blood test, lipids (cholesterol and triglycerides).
Urine microalbumin (protein) analysis.
Creatinine level to test for kidney function or muscle injury.
Blood glucose (sugar) level.
Detection test for influenza virus.
Strep test (Streptococcus, group A).
Eardrum testing using ear probe.
Placement of ear probe for computerized measurement of sound with interpretation and report.
Measurement and graphic recording of total and timed exhaled air capacity.
Initial preventive physical examination; face-to-face visit, services limited to new beneficiary during the first 12 months of medicare enrollment.
Electrocardiogram, routine ecg with 12 leads; performed as a screening for the initial preventive physical examination with interpretation and report.
Annual depression screening, 15 minutes.
Ultrasound of corneal structure and measurement.
Eye and medical examination for diagnosis and treatment, new patient, 1 or more visits.
Eye and medical examination for diagnosis and treatment, established patient.
Eye and medical examination for diagnosis and treatment, established patient, 1 or more visits.
Measurement of field of vision during daylight conditions.
Diagnostic imaging of optic nerve of eye.
Measurement and graphic recording of the amount and speed of breathed air, before and following medication administration.
Determination of lung volumes using plethysmography.
Measurement of lung diffusing capacity.
Measurement of lung stretching capacity.
Critical care delivery critically ill or injured patient.
Subsequent nursing facility visit, typically 10 minutes per day.
Established patient assisted living visit, typically 15 minutes.
Simple control of nose bleed.
Diagnostic examination of nasal passages using an endoscope.
Diagnostic examination of voice box using flexible endoscope.
Removal of foreign body from ear canal.
Removal of impact ear wax, one ear.
Examination of the nose and throat using an endoscope.
Repositioning maneuvers for treatment of vertigo, per day.
Cell examination of specimen.
Evaluation of fine needle aspirate.
Evaluation of fine needle aspirate with interpretation and report.
Pap test.
Pathology examination of tissue using a microscope, limited examination.
Pathology examination of tissue using a microscope.
Pathology examination of tissue using a microscope, moderately high complexity.
Preparation of tissue for examination by removing any calcium present.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of trunk.
Repair of wound of trunk.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10 sq centimeters or less) of eyelids, nose, ears, and/or lips.
Psychotherapy, 45 minutes with patient and/or family member.
Prolonged office or other outpatient service first hour.
Established patient home visit, typically 40 minutes.
Physician re-certification for medicare-covered home health services under a home health plan of care (patient not present), including contacts with home health agency and review of reports of patient status required by physicians to affirm the initial imp.
Initial nursing facility visit, typically 45 minutes per day.
Subsequent nursing facility visit, typically 35 minutes per day.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of abdominal aorta.
Nuclear medicine study heart muscle at rest and/or stress multiple studies.
Exercise or drug-induced heart and blood vessel stress test with EKG monitoring, physician supervision, interpretation, and report.
Insertion of catheter in left heart for imaging of blood vessels or grafts and left lower heart.
Ultrasound study of arteries of both arms and legs.
Rubidium rb-82, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 60 millicuries.
Injection, aminophyllin, up to 250 mg.
Injection, dipyridamole, per 10 mg.
Replacement of thigh bone and hip joint prosthesis.
Ground mileage, per statute mile.
Ambulance service, advanced life support, non-emergency transport, level 1 (als 1).
Ambulance service, advanced life support, emergency transport, level 1 (als 1 - emergency).
Ambulance service, basic life support, non-emergency transport, (bls).
Ambulance service, basic life support, emergency transport (bls-emergency).
Advanced life support, level 2 (als 2).
Specialty care transport (sct).
Osteopathic manipulative treatment to 9-10 body regions.
Stool analysis for blood to screen for colon tumors.
Blood test, clotting time.
Physician certification for medicare-covered home health services under a home health plan of care (patient not present), including contacts with home health agency and review of reports of patient status required by physicians to affirm the initial implem.
Injection, methylprednisolone acetate, 40 mg.
Repair of separation of wound closure with insertion of packing.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10.1 to 30.0 sq centimeters) of the forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet.
Preparation of graft site of face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes (first 100 sq cm or 1% body area of infants and children).
Removal of excessive skin and fat of upper eyelid.
Destruction of insufficient vein of arm or leg, accessed through the skin.
Repair of brow paralysis.
Computer-aided detection and computer algorithm analysis of breast MRI image data.
Biopsy of breast accessed through the skin with stereotactic guidance.
X-ray of ribs on one side of body including the chest, minimum of 3 views.
Ultrasound of one breast.
Computer analysis of diagnostic mammogram.
Computer analysis of screening mammogram to assist detection of cancer.
MRI scan of both breasts with contrast.
Screening digital tomography of both breasts.
Screening mammography, producing direct digital image, bilateral, all views.
Diagnostic mammography, producing direct 2-d digital image, bilateral, all view.
Diagnostic mammography, producing direct 2-d digital image, unilateral, all views.
Diagnostic digital breast tomosynthesis, unilateral or bilateral (list separately in addition to g0204 or g0206).
Anesthesia for procedure in upper abdomen including use of an endoscope.
Anesthesia for open total hip joint replacement.
Removal of impacted ear wax by washing.
Vaccine for influenza for injection into muscle, patient 3 years and older.
Ultrasound study of arteries of both legs at rest and exercise.
Annual alcohol misuse screening, 15 minutes.
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when administered to individuals 3 years of age and older, for intramuscular use (afluria).
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles of arm or leg limited study.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles of arm or leg complete study.
Nerve transmission studies, 5-6 studies.
Nerve transmission studies, 7-8 studies.
Nerve transmission studies, 9-10 studies.
Nerve transmission studies, 11-12 studies.
Testing of autonomic (sympathetic) nervous system function.
MRI of heart before and after contrast.
CT scan of heart blood vessels and grafts with contrast dye.
Nuclear medicine study of vessels of heart using drugs or exercise multiple studies.
Exercise or drug-induced heart and blood vessel stress test with EKG monitoring and physician supervision.
Exercise or drug-induced heart and blood vessel stress test with EKG tracing and monitoring.
Exercise or drug-induced heart and blood vessel stress test with EKG monitoring, physician interpretation and report.
Insertion of probe in esophagus for heart ultrasound examination including interpretation and report.
Doppler ultrasound study of heart blood flow, valves, and chambers.
Follow-up or limited heart doppler ultrasound study of heart blood flow, valves, and chambers.
Doppler ultrasound study of color-directed heart blood flow, rate, and valve function.
Ultrasound examination of the heart performed during rest, exercise, and/or drug-induced stress with interpretation and report.
Ultrasound examination and continuous monitoring of the heart performed during rest, exercise, and/or drug-induced stress with interpretation and report.
Injection of X-ray contrast material for ultrasound examination of the heart.
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, recording, scanning analysis, interpretation, and report 24 hours or longer.
Ultrasound scan of blood flow of aorta, vena cava, bypass graphs, or one side of the groin or limited scan.
Technetium tc-99m tetrofosmin, diagnostic, per study dose.
Injection, regadenoson, 0.1 mg.
Heart rhythm tracing, analysis, and interpretation of 48-hour EKG.
Heart rhythm tracing, computer analysis, and interpretation of patient-triggered events greater than 24-hour EKG up to 30 days.
Chronic care management services at least 20 minutes per calendar month.
Technetium tc-99m sestamibi, diagnostic, per study dose.
Emergency department visit, self limited or minor problem.
Anesthesia for procedure on brain.
Anesthesia for procedure on lower intestine using an endoscope.
Insertion of arterial catheter for blood sampling or infusion, accessed through the skin.
Injection procedure into sacroiliac joint for anesthetic or steroid.
Injections of upper or middle spine facet joint using imaging guidance.
Injections of lower or sacral spine facet joint using imaging guidance.
Destruction of upper or middle spinal facet joint nerves using imaging guidance.
Destruction of upper or middle spinal facet joint nerves with imaging guidance.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of covering of spinal cord.
Drug test def 1-7 classes.
Drug test def 8-14 classes.
Drug test def 15-21 classes.
Psychiatric diagnostic evaluation with medical services.
Removal of recurring cataract in lens capsule using laser.
Removal of cataract with insertion of lens.
Examination of cornea and iris using lens device and slit lamp.
Computerized mapping of corneal curvature.
Diagnostic imaging of retina.
Measurement of corneal curvature and depth of eye.
Photography of the retina.
Catheter insertion of stents in major coronary artery or branch, accessed through the skin.
External shock to heart to regulate heart beat.
Ultrasound evaluation of heart blood vessel or graft.
Heart rhythm tracing of 48-hour EKG.
Evaluation of parameters of single, dual, or multiple lead pacemaker including device connection, recording, and disconnection.
Chest ultrasound examination of heart.
Wet mounts, including preparations of vaginal, cervical or skin specimens.
Anesthesia for procedure on spine and spinal cord.
Removal of skin and tissue first 20 sq cm or less.
Removal of skin and tissue.
Removal of tissue from wounds per session.
X-ray of chest, special views.
X-ray of foot, 2 views.
3D radiographic procedure with computerized image postprocessing.
Nerve transmission studies, 13 or more studies.
Neuropsychological testing, interpretation, and report by psychologist or physician per hour.
Neuropsychological testing by technician with interpretation and report by a qualified healthcare professional per hour.
Blood test, basic group of blood chemicals.
Blood test, comprehensive group of blood chemicals.
Urine microalbumin (protein) level.
Complete blood cell count (red cells, white blood cell, platelets), automated test.
Administration of 1 vaccine.
Air and bone conduction assessment of hearing loss and speech recognition.
Routine electrocardiogram (EKG) with tracing using at least 12 leads.
Chiropractic manipulative treatment, 1-2 spinal regions.
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when administered to individuals 3 years of age and older, for intramuscular use (fluzone).
Anesthesia for procedure on heart and great blood vessels.
3D radiographic procedure.
Ultrasound guidance for accessing into blood vessel.
Psychotherapy for crisis, first 60 minutes.
Manual urinalysis test with examination using microscope.
Smear for infectious agents.
Anesthesia for procedure on skin of arms, legs, or trunk.
Anesthesia for central vein access.
Anesthesia for procedure on anus and rectum.
Anesthesia for procedure on urinary system including use of an endoscope.
Anesthesia for placement or revision of blood flow shunt.
Anesthesia for diagnostic X-ray procedure on arteries or veins.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure on arteries.
Insertion of catheter into right upper heart chamber and pulmonary (lung) artery for monitoring purposes.
Removal of growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Removal of growth (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Removal of malignant growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Removal of malignant growth (3.1 to 4 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Removal of malignant growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Removal of malignant growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, or lips.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of the scalp, underarms, trunk, arms, and/or legs.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of neck, hands, feet, and/or genitals.
Diagnostic examination of ear and nose.
Injection, epoetin alfa, (for non-esrd use), 1000 units.
Insertion of probe in esophagus for heart ultrasound examination.
Closed treatment of pelvic ring fracture or dislocation.
Surgical treatment of broken thigh bone.
Anesthesia for electric shock treatment.
Insertion of catheter into artery on one side of neck for diagnosis or treatment including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Insertion of catheter into chest artery for diagnosis or treatment including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Insertion of catheter into abdominal pelvic or leg artery.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of artery of one arm or leg.
Repair of wound (1.1 to 2.5 centimeters) of forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet.
Repair of wound (1.1 to 2.5 centimeters) of eyelids, nose, ears, and/or lips.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of eyelids, nose, ears, and/or lips.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10.1 to 30.0 sq centimeters) of eyelids, nose, ears, and/or lips.
Relocation of patient skin to nose, ears, eyelids, and/or lips (20 sq centimeters or less).
Removal and microscopic examination of growth of the head, neck, hands, feet, or genitals (first stage, up to 5 tissue blocks).
Removal and microscopic examination of growth of the head, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Removal and microscopic examination of growth of the trunk, arms, or legs (first stage, up to 5 tissue blocks).
Removal and microscopic examination of growth of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Detection test for candida species (yeast).
Detection test for gardnerella vaginalis (bacteria).
Detection test for Trichomonas vaginalis (genital parasite).
Biopsy of the esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Balloon dilation of esophagus using an endoscope.
Dilation of esophagus.
Biopsy of large bowel using an endoscope.
Removal of polyps or growths of large bowel using an endoscope.
Diagnostic examination of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Diagnostic examination of large bowel using an endoscope.
Removal of fluid from chest cavity with imaging guidance.
CT scan of neck with contrast.
CT scan of neck blood vessels with contrast.
MRI scan of brain with contrast.
CT scan chest before and after contrast.
CT scan of middle spine.
X-ray of pelvis, 1 or 2 views.
X-ray of femur, minimum 2 views.
Imaging of abdomen and chest.
Ultrasound of arm or leg.
Respiratory motion management simulation.
Radiation therapy total body port plan.
Anesthesia for open procedure on bones of lower leg, ankle and foot.
Anesthesia for X-ray or radiation therapy.
Electronic analysis reprogramming and refill of spinal canal drug infusion pump by physician.
Fluoroscopic guidance for insertion of needle.
Emergent insertion of breathing tube into windpipe cartilage using an endoscope.
Determination of lung volumes using gas dilution or washout.
Smoking and tobacco use intermediate counseling, greater than 3 minutes up to 10 minutes.
Injection of anesthetic agent, brachial (arm) nerve bundle.
Injection of anesthetic agent, sciatic nerve.
Injection of anesthetic agent, thigh nerve.
Injection of anesthetic agent, other peripheral nerve or branch.
Injection, methylprednisolone acetate, 80 mg.
Needle biopsy of muscle, accessed through the skin.
Needle biopsy of lung or chest tissue, accessed through the skin.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked vein, accessed through the skin.
Insertion of central venous catheter and implanted device for infusion beneath the skin, patient 5 years or older.
Removal of central venous catheter for infusion.
Removal of peripheral venous catheter for infusion.
Insertion of vena cava filter by endovascular approach, including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Needle or trocar bone marrow biopsy.
Drainage of fluid from abdominal cavity using imaging guidance.
Fluid collection drainage by catheter using imaging guidance, accessed through the skin.
Injection of contrast through abdominal cavity catheter for X-ray study.
Insertion of stomach tube (accessed through the skin) using fluoroscopic guidance with contrast.
Replacement of stomach or large bowel tube using fluoroscopic guidance with contrast, accessed through the skin.
Replacement of kidney drainage catheter accessed through the skin with imaging and radiological supervision and interpretation.
CT scan of abdominal aorta and both leg arteries with contrast.
Imaging for abscess or abnormal drainage tract procedure.
Fluoroscopic guidance for insertion, replacement or removal of central venous access device.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of CT guidance for needle insertion.
Ultrasound study of arteries and arterial grafts of one leg or limited.
Ultrasound study of arteries and arterial grafts of one arm or limited.
Chemotherapy administration into spinal canal requiring spinal tap.
Moderate sedation services by physician also performing a procedure, patient 5 years of age or older, first 30 minutes.
Moderate sedation services by physician or health care provider also performing a procedure.
Bone marrow aspiration performed with bone marrow biopsy through the same incision on the same date of service.
Irrigation and suction of lung airways to obtain cells using an endoscope.
Examination of nasal passage and sinus using an endoscope.
Psychiatric diagnostic evaluation.
Psychotherapy, 30 minutes with patient and/or family member.
Anesthesia for procedure on eye.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure (accessed through the skin) on spine and spinal cord.
Anesthesia for nerve block and injection procedure, prone position.
Diagnostic examination of the anus using an endoscope.
Fine needle aspiration using imaging guidance.
Insertion of needle and/or catheter for dialysis.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of balloon dilation of narrowed vein.
Injection by continuous infusion of anesthetic agent, thigh nerve.
Injection of anesthetic agent, thoracic vertebra.
Nervous system procedure.
Ultrasound examination of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Insertion of stomach tube using an endoscope.
Removal of foreign bodies of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Ultrasound examination of esophagus, stomach and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Biopsy of gallbladder, pancreatic, liver, and bile ducts using an endoscope.
Incision of pancreatic outlet muscle using an endoscope.
Removal of stone from bile or pancreatic duct using an endoscope.
Placement of stent pancreatic or bile duct using an endoscope.
Removal of foreign body or stent from pancreatic or bile duct using an endoscope.
Replacement of stent pancreatic or bile duct using an endoscope.
Respiratory inhaled pressure or nonpressure treatment to relieve airway obstruction or for sputum specimen.
Injections of trigger points in 1 or 2 muscles.
Injection of anesthetic agent, collar bone nerve.
Removal of malignant growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Removal of malignant growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Repair of wound (7.6 to 12.5 centimeters) of the scalp, underarms, trunk, arms, and/or legs.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 5.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, and/or mouth.
Repair of wound of forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet.
Destruction of malignant growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of trunk, arms, or legs.
Destruction of malignant growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of trunk, arms, or legs.
Destruction of malignant growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Destruction of malignant growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Destruction of malignant growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Pathology examination of tissue during surgery.
Pathology examination of specimen during surgery.
Removal or manipulation of stone in urinary duct (ureter) or kidney using an endoscope.
Ultrasound of eye for determination of lens power.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on one side of neck excluding voice box accessed through the skin.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles for guidance with injection of chemical for destruction of muscles.
Shaving of 0.5 centimeters or less skin growth of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Shaving of 0.6 centimeters to 1.0 centimeters skin growth of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Shaving of 1.1 to 2.0 centimeters skin growth of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Shaving of over 2.0 centimeters skin growth of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Removal of tissue from 1 to 5 finger or toe nails.
Removal of tissue from 6 or more finger or toe nails.
Separation of nail plate from nail bed.
Removal of nail.
Biopsy of finger or toe nail.
Aspiration and/or injection of intermediate joint or joint capsule with recording and reporting using ultrasound guidance.
Imaging guidance for procedure, up to 1 hour.
Imaging of 2 or more joints, single view.
Colorectal cancer screening; colonoscopy on individual not meeting criteria for high risk.
Ambulatory continuous glucose (sugar) monitoring for a minimum of 72 hours.
Ambulatory continuous glucose (sugar) including interpretation and report for a minimum of 72 hours.
Physician supervision of a patient receiving medicare-covered services provided by a participating home health agency (patient not present) requiring complex and multidisciplinary care modalities involving regular physician development and/or revision of c.
Blood smear interpretation by physician with written report.
Bone marrow, smear interpretation.
Flow cytometry technique for DNA or cell analysis.
Molecular pathology procedure; physician interpretation and report.
X-ray of femur, 1 view.
Nuclear medicine study of lung ventilation and blood circulation in the lungs.
Nuclear medicine study of brain.
Nuclear medicine study with CT imaging skull base to mid-thigh.
Fluorodeoxyglucose f-18 fdg, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 45 millicuries.
Injection, gadolinium-based magnetic resonance contrast agent, not otherwise specified (nos), per ml.
Iodine 1-123 ioflupane, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 5 millicuries.
Injection, gadobutrol, 0.1 ml.
Imaging for bone length assessment.
Injection of drug into eye.
Analysis of substance using immunoassay technique.
Eye and medical examination for diagnosis and treatment, new patient.
Unclassified biologics.
Insertion of catheter into urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
CT scan head or brain before and after contrast.
Application of mechanical traction to 1 or more areas.
Anesthesia for procedure on esophagus and neck.
Anesthesia for procedure on major blood vessels of neck.
Anesthesia for lower abdominal hernia repair.
Anesthesia for procedure in lower abdominal cavity including use of an endoscope.
Removal of up to and including 15 skin tags.
Shaving of 0.6 centimeters to 1.0 centimeters skin growth of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Shaving of 1.1 to 2.0 centimeters skin growth of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Shaving of 0.6 centimeters to 1.0 centimeters skin growth of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Removal of growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Injection of up to 7 skin growths.
Biopsy of lip.
Biopsy of ear.
Application of light to aid destruction of premalignant and/or malignant skin growths, each session.
Aminolevulinic acid hcl for topical administration, 20%, single unit dosage form (354 mg).
Infusion, normal saline solution , 1000 cc.
Vitamin D-3 level.
Blood test, thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).
Removal of gallbladder with X-ray study of bile ducts using endoscope.
Needle biopsy of kidney, accessed through the skin.
X-ray of both knees, standing, front to back view.
Creatine kinase (cardiac enzyme) level.
Blood creatinine level.
PSA (prostate specific antigen) measurement.
Thyroxine (thyroid chemical) measurement.
Bacterial colony count, urine.
Examination of eye by ophthalmoscope with retinal drawing.
Spinal tap for diagnosis.
Spinal tap with drainage of spinal fluid.
MRA scan of neck blood vessels before and after contrast.
CT scan of lower spine with contrast.
CT scan pelvis.
X-ray of pelvis, minimum of 2 views.
X-ray of fingers, minimum of 2 views.
X-ray of both hips with pelvis, 3-4 views.
X-ray of both hips with pelvis, minimum of 5 views.
CT scan abdomen with contrast.
X-ray of upper digestive tract.
X-ray of large bowel with contrast.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of bile and/or pancreatic ducts during surgery.
Imaging of liver and bile duct system.
Low dose ct scan (ldct) for lung cancer screening.
Ultrasound b-scan and/or real time with image documentation; for abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) screening.
Anesthesia for insertion of permanent heart pacemaker.
Anesthesia for insertion or replace of pacing heart defibrillator.
Anesthesia for procedure on heart to correct abnormal rhythm.
Anesthesia for procedure on heart and great blood vessels on heart-lung machine, age 1 year or older, or re-operation more than 1 month after original procedure.
Anesthesia for heart artery bypass grafting on heart-lung machine.
Anesthesia for fragmenting, manipulation and/or removal of kidney stone including use of an endoscope.
Anesthesia for procedure on arteries of upper leg.
Partial removal of collar bone at shoulder using an endoscope.
Removal of both knee cartilages using an endoscope.
Removal of one knee cartilage using an endoscope.
Colorectal cancer screening; colonoscopy on individual at high risk.
Injection procedure for sacroiliac joint; provision of anesthetic, steroid and/or other therapeutic agent, with or without arthrography.
Assessment of eardrum and muscle function.
Detection of middle ear fluid with assessment of eardrum and muscle function.
Removal of malignant growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, or lips.
Anesthesia for removal of prostate including use of an endoscope.
Preventive retinal detachment treatment by heat or laser, 1 or more sessions.
Laser destruction of retinal growth, 1 or more sessions.
Laser destruction of leaking retinal blood vessels, 1 or more sessions.
Ultrasound of eye disease, growth, or structure.
Examination of retinal blood vessels by ophthalmoscope.
Injection, aflibercept, 1 mg.
Injection, dexamethasone, intravitreal implant, 0.1 mg.
Compounded drug, not otherwise classified.
Laser destruction of incompetent vein of arm or leg using imaging guidance, accessed through the skin.
Remote evaluations of single, dual, or multiple lead pacemaker with physician analysis, review, and report up to 90 days.
Open treatment of broken thigh bone.
Anchoring of biceps tendon.
Incision of tendon covering.
Repair of groin hernia patient age 5 years or older.
Release and/or relocation of median nerve of hand.
Internal insertion of eye fluid drainage device.
Removal of growth of cornea.
Microfluid analysis of tears.
Photography of content of eyes.
MRI scan of blood vessels of chest.
Computer-assisted surgical navigational procedure for bone procedures.
Open treatment of broken thigh bone with insertion of hardware or prosthetic replacement.
X-ray of wrist, 2 views.
Pathology examination of tissue using a microscope, high complexity.
Prosthetic repair of shoulder joint.
Recording of retinal electrical responses to external stimuli.
Measurement and recording of nerve conduction patterns using visually-evoked stimulation.
Injection of radioactive dye for X-ray identification of lymph node.
CT scan of blood vessel of head with contrast.
X-ray of spine, 2 or 3 views.
X-ray of upper arm, minimum of 2 views.
X-ray of elbow, 2 views.
CT scan of abdominal blood vessels with contrast.
X-ray of upper digestive tract with contrast.
CT scan of heart structure with contrast.
Ultrasound of chest.
Nuclear medicine study of bone and/or joint.
Nuclear medicine study with CT imaging whole body.
Aspiration of abscess, blood accumulation, blister, or cyst.
Insertion of needle and/or catheter into an artery-vein dialysis shunt or graft.
Replacement of central venous catheter.
Catheter removal of blood clot from dialysis graft, accessed through the skin.
Needle biopsy of liver, accessed through the skin.
X-ray of spine, 1 view.
X-ray of both hips with pelvis, 2 views.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of insertion of catheter into biliary duct using an endoscope.
Water pool therapy with therapeutic exercises to 1 or more areas, each 15 minutes.
Therapeutic massage to 1 or more areas, each 15 minutes.
Donor bone graft for spine surgery.
Fusion of spine bones with removal of disc at upper spinal column, anterior approach.
Fusion of lower spine bones, posterior or posterolateral approach.
Fusion of lower spine bones with removal of disc, posterior or posterolateral approach.
Insertion of posterior spinal instrumentation at base of neck for stabilization, 1 interspace.
Insertion of posterior spinal instrumentation for spinal stabilization, 3 to 6 vertebral segments.
Insertion of anterior spinal instrumentation for spinal stabilization, 2 to 3 vertebral segments.
Insertion of spinal instrumentation for spinal stabilization.
Insertion of needle into vein, patient 3 years or older.
Bone marrow aspiration.
Partial removal of middle spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves.
Partial removal of spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves.
X-ray of upper spine, 6 or more views.
X-ray of paranasal sinus, complete, minimum of 3 views.
X-ray of middle and lower spine, 2 views.
X-ray lower and sacral spine including bending views 2 or 3 views.
X-ray of pelvis, minimum of 3 views.
X-ray of collar bone.
X-ray of shoulder, 1 view.
X-ray of heel, minimum of 2 views.
Ultrasound of leg or arm.
X-ray survey of forearm or wrist bone density.
Removal of eye fluid (vitreous) between the lens and retina.
Removal of membrane from the retina, pars plana approach.
Removal of implant material from inside the eye.
Injection of medication or substance into membrane covering eyeball.
Examination of eye using an endoscope.
Service or surgery of the eye.
Anesthesia for procedure on esophagus and neck, age 1 year or older.
Anesthesia for open procedure on upper two-thirds of thigh bone.
Interpretation and report of electrical activity of heart using 1-3 leads.
Remote evaluations of defibrillator transmissions, technician review, support and distribution of results up to 90 days.
Stomach emptying study.
Opening of windpipe through neck for insertion of breathing tube.
Examination of windpipe and lung airways through permanent skin opening to windpipe using an endoscope.
Stomach reduction procedure with partial removal of stomach using an endoscope.
Removal of gallbladder using an endoscope.
Diagnostic examination of lung airways using an endoscope.
Insertion of arterial catheter for blood sampling or infusion.
Interactive complexity.
Replacement of aortic valve with prosthetic valve, accessed through the skin.
Therapeutic procedures in a group setting.
Partial removal of breast.
Chiropractic manipulative treatment, 5 spinal regions.
Measurement of antibody (IgE) to allergic substance.
Injection of allergenic extracts into skin, accessed through the skin.
Measurement of eye muscles to detect deviation of eyeball.
Established patient assisted living visit, typically 60 minutes.
Shaving of 0.5 centimeters or less skin growth of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Shaving of 0.5 centimeters or less skin growth of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
X-ray of small intestine.
Imaging of liver and bile duct system with use of drugs.
MRI scan of pelvis before and after contrast.
Application of skin substitute (wound surface up to 100 sq cm) to trunk, arms, or legs (first 25 sq cm or less).
Management and supervision of oxygen chamber therapy per session.
Repair of wound (2.5 centimeters or less) of the scalp, underarms, trunk, arms, and/or legs.
Measurement and recording of brain wave (EEG) activity, in coma or asleep.
Heart rhythm symptom-related interpretation of 24-hour EKG monitoring up to 30 days.
Prostate cancer screening; digital rectal examination.
Albuterol, up to 2.5 mg and ipratropium bromide, up to 0.5 mg, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme.
Physical performance test or measurement with report, each 15 minutes.
CT scan head or brain with contrast.
MRI scan bones of the eye, face, and/or neck before and after contrast.
Nuclear medicine study with CT imaging.
Florbetapir f18, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 10 millicuries.
Imaging of joint with stressing by physician.
Hyaluronan or derivative, euflexxa, for intra-articular injection, per dose.
Blood glucose (sugar) measurement using reagent strip.
Ultrasound guided needle aspiration or biopsy of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Dilation of stomach outlet using an endoscope.
Insertion of guide wire with dilation of esophagus using an endoscope.
Removal of polyps or growths of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Injection, promethazine hcl, up to 50 mg.
Biopsy of one lobe of lung using an endoscope.
Pulmonary exercise testing.
Demonstration and/or evaluation of patient use of aerosol generator, nebulizer, metered dose inhaler or intermittent positive pressure breathing (IPPB) device.
Bladder irrigation and/or instillation.
Electro-removal of prostate through bladder canal (urethra) with control of bleeding using an endoscope.
Biopsy of prostate gland.
Biopsy of breast accessed through the skin with ultrasound guidance.
Mammography of one breast.
LDL cholesterol level.
Established patient assisted living visit, typically 40 minutes.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked upper arm artery, accessed through the skin.
Insertion of catheter into vein.
Insertion of catheter into chest or arm artery.
Removal of blood clot and injections (accessed through the skin) to dissolve blood clot from veins using fluoroscopic guidance.
Insertion of intravascular stents in vein, open or accessed through the skin, with radiological supervision and interpretation.
Occlusion of venous malformations (other than hemorrhage) with radiological supervision and interpretation, roadmapping, and imaging guidance.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of balloon dilation of narrowed artery.
Injection, alteplase recombinant, 1 mg.
Anesthesia for procedure on lower spine.
Breath alcohol level.
Testing of autonomic (parasympathetic and sympathetic) nervous system function.
Anesthesia for kidney transplant.
Contrast injections for X-ray imaging procedure to evaluate central venous access device.
X-ray of hand, 2 views.
Measurement of inhaled nitric oxide gas.
Injection of incremental dosages of allergen, 2 or more injections.
Preparation and provision of single or multiple antigens for allergen immunotherapy.
MRI scan of middle spinal canal before and after contrast.
X-ray of ankle, 2 views.
MRI scan of leg before and after contrast.
MRI scan of leg joint before and after contrast.
Ultrasound of scrotum.
Vessel mapping of vessels for hemodialysis access (services for preoperative vessel mapping prior to creation of hemodialysis access using an autogenous hemodialysis conduit, including arterial inflow and venous outflow).
Fusion of spine bones, posterior or posterolateral approach.
Placement of breast localization devices accessed through the skin with mammographic guidance.
Imaging of surgical specimen.
Mammography of both breasts.
Partial removal of upper spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves.
Drainage of abscess.
Removal of growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
New patient home visit, typically 30 minutes.
Established patient home visit, typically 15 minutes.
New patient home visit, typically 60 minutes.
Physician service required to establish and document the need for a power mobility device.
Injection of chemical for destruction of facial and neck nerve muscles on both sides of face.
Measurement of brain wave (EEG) activity, 41-60 minutes.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of head or trunk muscles.
Testing with stimulation for assessment of function at muscle-nerve junction.
Injection of dye for X-ray imaging of shoulder joint.
Injection, ranibizumab, 0.1 mg.
Examination of lung airways using an endoscope.
Computer-assisted image-guided navigation of lung airways using an endoscope.
Removal of fluid from chest cavity.
Sleep monitoring of patient (6 years or older) in sleep lab.
Sleep monitoring of patient (6 years or older) in sleep lab with continued pressured respiratory assistance by mask or breathing tube.
Laser destruction of prostate including control of bleeding using an endoscope.
Injection of dye for X-ray imaging and/or CT of lower spinal canal.
Occupational therapy evaluation.
Hyaluronan or derivative, hyalgan or supartz, for intra-articular injection, per dose.
Removal of skin suture with change of bladder tube.
Insertion of implant material in bladder using an endoscope.
Injection, heparin sodium, per 1000 units.
Injection, lidocaine hcl for intravenous infusion, 10 mg.
Insertion of stent, removal of plaque and/or balloon dilation of coronary vessel during heart attack, accessed through the skin.
Injection of carpal tunnel.
Injections of tendon sheath, ligament, or muscle membrane.
Closed treatment of broken forearm bones.
Application of cast, elbow to finger (short arm).
Cast supplies, short arm cast, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Evaluation, testing, and programming adjustment of permanent multiple lead pacemaker system with physician analysis, review, and report.
Evaluation of parameters of single, dual, or multiple lead cardioverter-defibrillator including connection, recording, disconnection, and analysis.
Evaluation of implantable heart recorder system including physician analysis, review, and report.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of arteries of both arms or legs.
Insertion of new or replacement of permanent pacemaker including upper and lower chamber electrodes.
Insertion of left heart electrode for pacing defibrillator device.
Insertion or replacement of single or dual chamber pacing defibrillator leads.
Evaluation of defibrillator including connection, recording and disconnection.
Remote evaluations of defibrillator up to 90 days with analysis, review and report.
Insertion of catheter into left heart for diagnosis.
Insertion of catheters for 3D mapping of electrical impulses to heart muscles.
Insertion of catheters for recording, pacing, and attempted induction of abnormal rhythm in left upper heart.
Programmed heart rhythm stimulation after drug infusion into a vein.
Evaluation of single or dual chamber pacing cardioverter-defibrillator at time of implantation or replacement.
Evaluation and insertion of catheters for creation of complete heart block.
Evaluation and insertion of catheters for recording, pacing, and attempted induction of abnormal heart rhythm.
Insertion of catheters for treatment of abnormal heart rhythm.
Evaluation and insertion of catheters for recording, pacing, and treatment of abnormal heart rhythm.
Destruction of tissue of right or left upper heart chamber via catheter for treatment of abnormal heart rhythm.
Ultrasound evaluation of heart blood vessel.
Beta-2 microglobulin (protein) level.
Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) protein level.
Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) level.
Erythropoietin (protein) level.
Ferritin (blood protein) level.
Folic acid level.
Gammaglobulin (immune system protein) measurement.
Haptoglobin (serum protein) level.
Homocysteine (amino acid) level.
Iron level.
Iron binding capacity.
Lactate dehydrogenase (enzyme) level.
Magnesium level.
Nephelometry, test method using light.
Phosphate level.
Protein measurement, serum.
Testosterone (hormone) level.
Transferrin (iron binding protein) level.
Uric acid level, blood.
Measurement C-reactive protein for detection of infection or inflammation.
Immunologic analysis for detection of tumor antigen.
Immunologic analysis technique on serum.
Hepatitis B core antibody measurement.
Hepatitis B core antibody (IgM) measurement.
Hydration infusion into a vein 31 minutes to 1 hour.
Hydration infusion into a vein.
Infusion into a vein for therapy, prevention, or diagnosis.
Infusion into a vein for therapy prevention or diagnosis additional sequential infusion up to 1 hour.
Infusion into a vein for therapy, prevention, or diagnosis, concurrent with another infusion.
Injection of different drug or substance into a vein for therapy, diagnosis, or prevention.
Infusion of chemotherapy into a vein using push technique.
Infusion of different chemotherapy drug or substance into a vein.
Infusion of different chemotherapy drug or substance into a vein up to 1 hour.
Irrigation of implanted venous access drug delivery device.
Injection, diphenhydramine hcl, up to 50 mg.
Injection, filgrastim (g-csf), excludes biosimilars, 1 microgram.
Injection, iron dextran, 50 mg.
Injection, ondansetron hydrochloride, per 1 mg.
Injection, palonosetron hcl, 25 mcg.
Injection, pegfilgrastim, 6 mg.
Injection, magnesium sulfate, per 500 mg.
Injection, zoledronic acid, 1 mg.
Infusion, normal saline solution, sterile (500 ml=1 unit).
Injection, bevacizumab, 10 mg.
Injection, bortezomib, 0.1 mg.
Injection, carboplatin, 50 mg.
Injection, fluorouracil, 500 mg.
Injection, gemcitabine hydrochloride, 200 mg.
Injection, paclitaxel protein-bound particles, 1 mg.
Injection, paclitaxel, 1 mg.
Injection, rituximab, 100 mg.
Injection, ferumoxytol, for treatment of iron deficiency anemia, 1 mg (non-esrd use).
Advance care planning by the physician or other qualified health care professional.
Diagnostic testing in a pulmonary function lab.
Counseling visit to discuss need for lung cancer screening (ldct) using low dose ct scan (service is for eligibility determination and shared decision making).
Application of blood vessel compression or decompression device to 1 or more areas.
Strapping of knee.
Insertion of needle or catheter into the carotid (neck) or vertebral (brain) artery.
Insertion of catheter into artery on one side of neck or chest for diagnosis or treatment including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Nerve transmission studies, 3-4 studies.
Insertion of temporary bladder catheter.
Bladder instillation of cancer preventive, inhibiting, or suppressive agent.
Bacterial culture for aerobic isolates.
Bacterial urine culture.
Evaluation of antimicrobial drug (antibiotic, antifungal, antiviral).
Bcg (intravesical) per instillation.
Injection, degarelix, 1 mg.
Bacterial culture and colony count.
Strapping of shoulder.
Ultrasound evaluation of heart blood vessel during diagnosis or treatment.
Closure of tear duct opening using plug.
Removal of recurring cataract in lens capsule.
Laser destruction of eye fluid (vitreous) between the lens and retina.
Repair of detached retina, 1 or more sessions.
Repair of detached retina and drainage of eye fluid between lens and retina.
Injection, triamcinolone acetonide, preservative free, 1 mg.
Strapping of ankle and/or foot.
Strapping of toes.
Probing of nasal-tear duct.
Biopsy or removal of lymph nodes of under the arm, open procedure.
Lymph node imaging during surgery.
Lipase (fat enzyme) level.
Red blood cell sedimentation rate, to detect inflammation.
Prostate cancer screening; prostate specific antigen test (psa).
Surgical pathology, gross and microscopic examinations, for prostate needle biopsy, any method.
Injections of large bowel using an endoscope.
Removal of large bowel tissue using an endoscope.
Second repair of surgical wound.
Fluoroscopic and video recorded motion evaluation of swallowing function.
Prolonged inpatient or observation hospital service first hour.
CT scan leg with contrast injection.
CT scan abdomen.
Examination of common bile and/or pancreatic ducts using an endoscope.
Repair of wound (2.5 centimeters or less) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, and/or mucous membranes.
Hospital observation or inpatient care high severity, 55 minutes per day.
Needle biopsy of windpipe cartilage, airway, and/or lung using an endoscope.
Aspiration of lung secretions from lung airways using an endoscope.
Examination of lung airways using an endoscope with imaging guidance and ultrasound.
Dialysis services, per day (less than full month service), patient 20 years of age or older.
Ventilation assistance and management, hospital inpatient or observation.
Stool analysis for blood.
Application of ultraviolet light to skin.
Control of nasal bleeding using an endoscope.
Examination to assess movement of vocal cord flaps using an endoscope.
Incision of eardrum with insertion of eardrum tube under local or topical anesthesia.
Injection of allergenic extracts into skin for immediate reaction analysis.
Injection of incremental dosages of allergen.
Injections of tendon attachment to bone.
Lengthening of calf muscle.
Correction of toe joint deformity.
Amputation of foot.
Application of short leg splint (calf to foot).
Injections of anesthetic and/or steroid drug into nerve of foot.
X-ray of shoulder blade.
Insertion of radiation therapy devices in vagina for radiation therapy.
High dose brachytherapy , 1 channel.
Medical nutrition therapy, assessment and intervention, each 15 minutes.
Medical nutrition therapy re-assessment and intervention, each 15 minutes.
Ultrasound study of veins of both arms or legs including assessment of functional maneuvers.
New patient assisted living visit, typically 60 minutes.
New patient home visit, typically 45 minutes.
Biopsy or removal of nasal polyp or tissue using an endoscope.
Removal of nasal sinus using an endoscope.
Removal of nasal sinus tissue using an endoscope.
Exploration of nasal sinus using an endoscope.
Computer-assisted procedure outside the brain.
Nuclear medicine imaging for thyroid uptake measurements.
Imaging of parathyroid.
Imaging of parathyroid with nuclear medicine study.
Imaging of parathyroid with CT and nuclear medicine study.
Imaging of lymphatic tissue and lymph node.
Imaging of liver and spleen.
Acute digestive tract blood loss imaging.
Bone and/or joint imaging.
Bone and/or joint imaging, 3 phase study.
Nuclear medicine study of heart wall motion at rest or stress with evaluation of blood ejection from heart, single study.
Nuclear medicine study of blood circulation in the lungs.
Nuclear medicine study of kidney with assessment of blood flow and function.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution at tumor locations in whole body, single day imaging.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution at site of inflammation.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution at sites of inflammation in whole body.
Application of short leg cast (below knee to toes).
Cast supplies, short leg cast, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Blood potassium level.
Liver enzyme (SGPT), level.
Removal of blood clot and injections to dissolve blood clot from artery or arterial graft using fluoroscopic guidance, accessed beneath the skin.
Removal of plaque and insertion of stents into arteries in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Removal of plaque in artery in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Analysis and reprogramming of inner ear (cochlear) implant, patient age 7 years or older.
Evaluation of hearing rehabilitation first hour.
Removal of eyelashes by forceps.
Nursing facility discharge day management, 30 minutes or less.
Replacement of liver duct drainage catheter accessed through the skin with imaging and radiological supervision and interpretation.
Needle biopsy of abdominal cavity growth, accessed through the skin.
Exchange of abdominal cavity drainage catheter using imaging guidance.
Replacement of small bowel tube using fluoroscopic guidance with contrast, accessed through the skin.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of abdominal artery.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of artery.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of change of tube (accessed through the skin) or drainage catheter with contrast monitoring.
MRA scan of neck blood vessels.
X-ray of upper digestive tract with contrast followed by x-ray of small bowel at later point.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10 sq centimeters or less) of the trunk.
Total removal of breast.
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when administered to individuals 3 years of age and older, for intramuscular use (flulaval).
Health and behavior assessment each 15 minutes.
Health and behavior intervention, individual each 15 minutes.
Hospital observation care typically 30 minutes.
Change of stomach feeding, accessed through the skin.
Breath test analysis for helicobacter pylori.
Administration of drug for helicobacter pylori.
Hemoglobin measurement.
Home dialysis services per month, patient 20 years of age or older.
Ultrasound scan of vena cava or groin graft or vessel blood flow.
Urea nitrogen level to assess kidney function.
Bacterial culture.
Injection, gadoterate meglumine, 0.1 ml.
Partial removal of bone with release of spinal cord or spinal nerves of 1 interspace in lower spine.
Partial removal of bone with release of spinal cord or spinal nerves in upper or lower spine.
Removal of impacted cerumen (one or both ears) by physician on same date of service as audiologic function testing.
Aspiration and/or injection of small joint or joint capsule with recording and reporting using ultrasound guidance.
Destruction of peripheral nerve or branch.
Injection, methylprednisolone acetate, 20 mg.
Hyaluronan or derivative, orthovisc, for intra-articular injection, per dose.
Cell examination of urine.
Pathology examination of tissue specimen during surgery.
Analysis of genetic material.
Microscopic genetic examination using computer-assisted technology.
Microscopic genetic examination manual.
Crystal identification from tissue or body fluid.
Urine pregnancy test.
Fusion of upper spine bones, posterior or posterolateral approach.
Aspiration of blood accumulation in brain.
Removal of brain tumor.
Computer-assisted procedure inside the brain.
Microscopic genetic analysis of tissue.
Removal of 2 to 4 thickened skin growths.
Implantation of spinal neurostimulator electrodes, accessed through the skin.
Aspiration of eye fluid.
Glutamyltransferase (liver enzyme) level.
Liver enzyme (SGOT), level.
Injection of anesthetic agent, greater occipital nerve.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on arm or leg, 5 or more muscles.
Vaccine for tetanus, diphtheria toxoids and acellular pertussis (whooping cough) for injection into muscle, patient 7 years or older.
Injection, methylprednisolone sodium succinate, up to 40 mg.
Anesthesia for liver biopsy (accessed through the skin).
Anesthesia for procedure on lower rear abdominal wall.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerves, muscles, tendons, fascia, and bursae of shoulder and underarm.
Daily hospital management of continuous spinal drug administration.
Injections and continuous infusion into upper or middle spinal canal.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of abdominal aorta and both leg arteries.
Liver function blood test panel.
Injection, fentanyl citrate, 0.1 mg.
Oncology Care Model service.
Nuclear medicine multiple studies of vessels of heart at rest, using drugs, or exercise.
Stomach procedure.
Vaccine for tetanus and diphtheria toxoids injection into muscle, patient 7 years or older.
Incision, aspiration, and/or inflation of eardrum.
Transplantation of donor liver to anatomic position.
Preparation of donor liver for transplantation.
CT scan of lower leg blood vessels with contrast.
Nursing facility annual assessment, typically 30 minutes.
Amputation of thigh through thigh bone.
New patient home visit, typically 75 minutes.
Established patient home visit, typically 60 minutes.
External EKG recording for more than 48 hours up to 21 days with analysis, report, review and interpretation.
Removal and replacement of dual lead permanent pacemaker pulse generator.
Telephonic evaluation of single, dual, or multiple lead pacemaker heart rhythm strips up to 90 days.
Remote evaluations of implantable heart monitoring system with physician analysis, review, and report up to 30 days.
Remote evaluations of implantable heart recorder system including transmissions, technician review, support, and distribution of results up to 30 days.
Removal of total lymph nodes of both sides of pelvis using an endoscope.
Surgical removal of prostate and surrounding lymph nodes using an endoscope.
Implantation of lower leg neurostimulator electrode, accessed through the skin.
Incision to straighten toe bone.
Training in use of orthotics (supports, braces, or splints) for arms, legs and/or trunk each 15 minutes.
Imaging of digestive tract done from the inside of the digestive tract.
X-ray lower and sacral spine including bending views minimum 6 views.
Removal of hemorrhoid by rubber banding.
Preparation of donor kidney for transplantation.
Transplantation of donor kidney.
Removal of skin and/or muscle first 20 sq cm or less.
Removal of skin and/or muscle.
New patient office or other outpatient visit, typically 10 minutes.
Injection, propofol, 10 mg.
Insertion of catheter into aorta.
Balloon dilation of arteries in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Balloon dilation of artery of one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Removal of membrane from the retina.
Anesthesia for closed procedure in chest.
Anesthesia for open or endoscopic procedure on knee including.
Anesthesia for open or endoscopic procedure at upper arm and shoulder joint including.
Small bone graft harvest.
Release of shoulder biceps tendon using an endoscope.
Telehealth originating site facility fee.
Diagnostic imaging of eyes.
Pure tone air and bone conduction hearing assessment.
Removal of single thickened skin growth.
Application of electrical stimulation to 1 or more areas, each 15 minutes.
Injection for X-ray imaging procedure on veins of arm or leg.
Mechanical removal of tissue or obstructive material in central venous catheter.
Connection of tube graft to vein and artery for dialysis.
Ultrasound evaluation of blood vessel during diagnosis or treatment.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of vein of one arm or leg.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of veins of both arms or legs.
Ultrasound scanning of blood flow (outside of brain) on one side of head and neck or limited.
Ultrasound of dialysis access.
Incision of spine bone with removal of disc material at lower spinal column.
Incision of spine bone with removal of disc in spinal column.
Fusion of spine bones with removal of disc at lower spinal column, anterior approach.
Fusion of spine bones with removal of disc, anterior approach.
Re-exploration of spine repair with release of lower spinal cord or nerves.
Psychological testing with interpretation and report by psychologist or physician per hour.
Anesthesia for retinal surgery.
MRI scan of arm joint with contrast.
Assessment and recording of balance system during hot and cold irrigation of both ears.
Observation, testing, and recording of abnormal eye movement.
Use of vertical electrodes during eye or balance evaluation.
Exploration of spinal fusion.
Reinsertion of spinal fixation device.
Screening test for antibody to noninfectious agent.
Immunologic analysis technique on body fluid.
Injection of dye for X-ray imaging of hip joint.
Established patient assisted living visit, typically 25 minutes.
Medical nutrition therapy; reassessment and subsequent intervention(s) following second referral in same year for change in diagnosis, medical condition or treatment regimen (including additional hours needed for renal disease), individual, face to face wi.
Control of bleeding of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Blood bank physician services for cross match and/or evaluation and written report.
Tracing of electrical activity of the heart using 1-3 leads.
Removal of middle, lower, or sacral spine bone with release of spinal cord or nerves, transperitoneal or retroperitoneal approach.
Anesthesia for procedure in lower abdomen including urinary tract.
Unattended sleep study with recording of heart rate, oxygen, respiratory airflow and effort.
Repositioning of central venous catheter using fluoroscopic guidance.
Removal of upper spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves, anterior approach.
Mechanical separation of plasma from opening blood.
Thyroid hormone, T3 measurement.
Diabetes outpatient self-management training services, individual, per 30 minutes.
Stereotactic body radiation therapy 1 or more lesions using imaging guidance.
Intra-fraction localization and tracking of target or patient motion during delivery of radiation therapy (eg,3d positional tracking, gating, 3d surface tracking), each fraction of treatment.
Insertion of stents into arteries in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Acne surgery.
Heart rhythm symptom-related tracing and interpretation of 24-hour EKG monitoring up to 30 days.
Injection, meperidine hydrochloride, per 100 mg.
Levalbuterol, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, concentrated form, 0.5 mg.
Budesonide, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, up to 0.5 mg.
Troponin (protein) analysis.
Red blood count, automated test.
Injection of chemical for destruction of salivary glands on both sides of the mouth.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on one side of face.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on arm or leg, 1-4 muscles.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted complex deep brain neurostimulator generator system, first hour.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles of arms or legs.
Insertion of needles and skin electrodes for measurement and recording of stimulated sites in the arms and legs.
Continuous intraoperative neurophysiology monitoring, from outside the operating room (remote or nearby), per patient, (attention directed exclusively to one patient) each 15 minutes (list in addition to primary procedure).
Creation of eye fluid drainage tracts in iris using laser, per session.
Fitting of contact lens for treatment of ocular surface disease.
Dialysis procedure including one evaluation.
CT scan pelvis with contrast.
X-ray of toes, minimum of 2 views.
Needle biopsy of thyroid, accessed through the skin.
Analysis for antibody Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease bacteria).
Study of sleep patterns.
Physician documentation of face-to-face visit for durable medical equipment determination performed by nurse practitioner, physician assistant or clinical nurse specialist.
Closed treatment of broken foot bone.
Ultrasound examination of congenital heart defect.
Observation and recording of abnormal eye movement.
Observation and recording from multiple positions of abnormal eye movements.
Complex eye movement test while viewing objects in visual field.
Assessment and recording of abnormal eye movement while tracking moving object.
Assessment and recording of abnormal eye movement with patient in a rotating chair.
Assessment of balance and postural instability.
Ultrasound scanning of head and neck vessel blood flow (inside the brain).
Ultrasound limited scanning of head and neck blood flow (inside the brain).
Ultrasound scanning for medication response in head and neck vessel blood flow (inside the brain).
Monitoring and localization of seizure activity over 24-hour period using 16-channel electroencephalograph (EEG).
Digital analysis of electrical brain wave activity (EEG).
Neurobehavioral status examination, interpretation, and report by psychologist or physician per hour.
Evaluation of lower heart chamber assist device with physician analysis.
Implantation patient-activated heart monitoring device.
Removal of implantable patient-activated heart monitoring device.
Insertion of catheters for creation of complete heart block.
Anesthesia for removal of prostate.
Anesthesia for removal of urinary bladder tumors including use of an endoscope.
Injection of more than 7 skin growths.
Ambulance service, conventional air services, transport, one way (rotary wing).
Rotary wing air mileage, per statute mile.
Evaluation of hearing function brain responses first 60 minutes.
Replacement of left lower heart chamber valve using artificial valve on heart-lung machine.
Laser repair to improve eye fluid flow, 1 or more sessions.
Transplant of outer layer of corneal tissue.
Microscopic evaluation of deep cells of the eye.
Removal of more than 4 thickened skin growths.
Trimming of fingernails or toenails.
New patient assisted living visit, typically 30 minutes.
Established patient home visit, typically 25 minutes.
Trimming of dystrophic nails, any number.
Measurement of esophageal swallowing movement.
Monitoring of gastroesophageal reflux including analysis and interpretation, prolonged (greater than 1 hour, up to 24 hours).
Testing of tone and sensation of rectum and anus.
Study of anorectal pressure generated by muscles surrounding anus (sphincter).
Application of chemical agent to excessive wound tissue.
Creation of eye fluid drainage tract.
Creation of shunt to improve eye fluid flow with graft.
Insertion of needles and skin electrodes for measurement and recording of stimulated sites in the arms.
Insertion of needles and skin electrodes for measurement and recording of stimulated sites in the legs.
Removal of growth of tendon finger or hand.
Application of non-moveable, short arm splint (forearm to hand).
Release of wrist ligament using an endoscope.
Cast supplies, short arm splint, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Finger splint, static.
New patient assisted living visit, typically 75 minutes.
Corneal hysteresis determination.
Shaving of 1.1 to 2.0 centimeters skin growth of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Tissue fungi or parasites.
Prolonged chemotherapy infusion into a vein by portable or implanted pump more than 8 hours.
Injection, leucovorin calcium, per 50 mg.
Injection, fosaprepitant, 1 mg.
Repair of wound (2.5 centimeters or less) of the scalp, neck, underarms, trunk, arms and/or legs.
Cell examination of body fluid.
Face-to-face behavioral counseling for obesity, 15 minutes.
Parathormone (parathyroid hormone) level.
Anesthesia for procedure on eyelid.
Hospital observation or inpatient care moderate severity, 50 minutes per day'.
Fusion of lower spine bones with removal of disc, posterior approach.
Insertion of artificial upper spine disc, anterior approach.
Insertion of artificial upper spine disc anterior approach.
Computer-assisted spinal procedure.
Destruction of malignant growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Urine albumin (protein) level.
Creatinine clearance measurement to test for kidney function.
Thyroid hormone evaluation.
Coagulation assessment blood test.
Screening test for autoimmune disorder.
Travel allowance one way in connection with medically necessary laboratory specimen collection drawn from home bound or nursing home bound patient; prorated trip charge..
Hearing test using earphones.
Placement of ear probe for computerized cochlear assessment of repeated sounds with interpretation and report.
Osteopathic manipulative treatment to 3-4 body regions.
Osteopathic manipulative treatment to 5-6 body regions.
Osteopathic manipulative treatment to 7-8 body regions.
Insertion of hormone pellets beneath the skin.
Injection procedure to induce erection.
Ultrasound scan of penile arterial inflow and venous outflow.
Unclassified drugs.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles in arms or legs.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles in arm or leg or muscles in trunk or head, limited study.
Neuropsychological testing by a computer with interpretation and report by a qualified healthcare professional.
Destruction and/or removal of (0.5 to 2.0 centimeters) small growths of the bladder using an endoscope.
Laser vaporization of prostate including control of bleeding using an endoscope.
Insertion of catheter in right and left heart for imaging of blood vessels or grafts and left lower heart.
Calcium level.
Urine calcium level.
Measurement of antibody for assessment of autoimmune disorder.
Measurement of complement (immune system proteins).
Measurement of antibody for rheumatoid arthritis assessment.
Measurement of DNA antibody.
Rheumatoid factor level.
Screening test for pathogenic organisms.
Body fluid cell count with cell identification.
Insertion of electronic device into bladder with voiding and bladder canal (urethra) pressure studies.
Examination with injections of chemical for destruction of bladder using an endoscope.
Creation of sling around bladder canal (urethra) to control leakage.
Insertion of sacral nerve neurostimulator electrodes, accessed through the skin.
Incision to insert sacral nerve neurostimulator electrodes.
Kidney function blood test panel.
Total protein level, urine.
Dilation of nasal sinus using an endoscope.
Incision of fluid canals of inner ear with infusion of drugs, transcanal approach.
Screening mammography of both breasts.
Cholesterol level.
HDL cholesterol level.
Family psychotherapy including patient.
Smoking and tobacco use intensive counseling, greater than 10 minutes.
Smoking and tobacco cessation counseling visit for the asymptomatic patient; intensive, greater than 10 minutes.
Repair of hernia of muscle at esophagus and stomach with implantation of mesh using an endoscope.
Bypass operation of stomach using an endoscope.
X-ray of bones of face, minimum of 3 views.
X-ray of skull, less than 4 views.
Set-up portable x-ray equipment.
Transportation of portable x-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, one patient seen.
Transportation of portable x-ray equipment and personnel to home or nursing home, per trip to facility or location, more than one patient seen.
Pap test (Pap smear).
Screening test for Strep antibody (strep throat).
Rheumatoid factor analysis.
Measurement of heart blood flow and respiration.
Electrocardiogram, routine ecg with 12 leads; interpretation and report only, performed as a screening for the initial preventive physical examination.
Injection, lincomycin hcl, up to 300 mg.
Heart rhythm symptom-related tracing of 24-hour EKG monitoring up to 30 days.
Incision and drainage of eyelid abscess.
Biopsy of eyelid.
Removal of eyelid growth.
Repair of tendon of upper eyelid.
Extensive repair of turning-outward eyelid defect.
Repair of turning-inward eyelid defect.
Enlargement of eyelid margin.
Reconstruction of conjunctiva.
Probing of nasal-tear duct with insertion of tube or stent.
Repair of trapped groin hernia patient age 5 years or older.
Electronic analysis of spinal canal drug infusion pump.
Combined multiple vein and artery heart artery bypasses.
Electronic analysis reprogramming and refill of spinal canal drug infusion pump.
Testing of nerve from ear to brain (cochlear).
Insertion of hardware to broken thigh bone, accessed through the skin.
Partial removal of small and large bowel with attachment of small and large bowel using an endoscope.
Harvest of bone for spine surgery graft.
Removal of posterior spinal instrumentation.
Replacement of aortic valve with prosthetic valve accessed through the skin.
Natriuretic peptide (heart and blood vessel protein) level.
Range of motion testing of arm, leg or each spine section.
Hemoglobin level.
X-ray imaging of teeth.
Removal of bone joints between wrist and fingers.
Repair of shoulder socket cartilage using an endoscope.
Partial removal of bone and/or release of lower spinal cord or spinal nerves.
Pure tone air conduction threshold hearing assessment.
Assessment of hearing loss and speech recognition.
Hyaluronan or derivative, gel-one, for intra-articular injection, per dose.
Incision of spine to correct deformity at lower spinal column.
Anesthesia for nerve block and injection procedure.
Arterial puncture withdrawal of blood for diagnosis.
Vaccine for influenza for injection into skin.
Application of hot wax bath to 1 or more areas.
Drainage of multiple abscess.
Drainage of blood or fluid accumulation.
Removal of deep bone implant.
Repair of torn tendons of shoulder, open procedure.
Removal or scraping of finger bone cyst or growth.
New patient home visit, typically 20 minutes.
Red blood cell concentration measurement.
Anesthesia for breast reconstruction.
Detection test for Influenza virus, A or B.
Single measurement of remaining air or lung capacity after exhalation.
Measurement of airway resistance by impulse oscillometry.
Insertion of needle or catheter into an artery of arm or leg.
Overnight measurement of oxygen saturation in blood using ear or finger device.
Physician review, interpretation, and patient management of home inr testing for patient with either mechanical heart valve(s), chronic atrial fibrillation, or venous thromboembolism who meets medicare coverage criteria; testing not occurring more frequent.
Transplant of tendon of hand.
Extensive removal of shoulder joint tissue using an endoscope.
Reshaping of nasal cartilage.
Release and/or relocation of ulnar nerve at elbow.
Anesthesia for procedure on upper urinary duct (ureter) or removal of kidney for transplant.
New patient assisted living visit, typically 45 minutes.
Measurement of largest amount of air breathed in an out of lungs over one minute.
Collection and analysis of exhaled air and carbon dioxide for evaluation of lung function.
Ultrasound guided needle aspiration or biopsies of esophagus using an endoscope.
Combined vein and artery heart artery bypass.
Group psychotherapy.
Anesthesia for procedure on nose and sinus.
Anesthesia for open or endoscopic procedure on bones of forearm, wrist, or hand.
Blood bank physician services for investigation of transfusion reaction with written report.
Blood bank physician services with written report.
Diabetes outpatient self-management training services, group session (2 or more), per 30 minutes.
Mass spectrometry (laboratory testing method).
PCP drug level.
Anesthesia for open surgical procedure on hip joint.
Prolonged inpatient or observation hospital service each 30 minutes beyond first hour.
Removal of growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Removal of growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Removal of growth (1.1 to 2.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Examination of lung with removal of lung lobe using an endoscope.
Removal of lymph nodes of mid-chest cavity using an endoscope.
Imaging guidance for procedure, more than 1 hour.
Injections of local anesthetic for pain control and abdominal wall analgesia on both sides.
Collection of blood specimen from a completely implantable venous access device.
Blood chloride level.
Blood sodium level.
Destruction of growths on esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Repair of hernia of muscle at esophagus and stomach using an endoscope.
Stomach procedure using an endoscope.
Repair of groin hernia using an endoscope.
Repair of trapped hernia using an endoscope.
Injection of bone cement into body of middle spine bone accessed through the skin using imaging guidance.
Telehealth consultation, emergency department or initial inpatient, typically 50 minutes communicating with the patient via telehealth.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 7.5 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, underarms, genitals, trunk, arms and/or legs.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10.1 to 30.0 sq centimeters) of the scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10 sq centimeters or less) of the forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (30.1 to 60.0 sq centimeters).
Relocation of patient skin to forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet (20 sq centimeters or less).
Removal of impacted stool or foreign body under anesthesia.
Shock treatment and monitoring.
Aspiration of breast cyst.
Detection test for multiple types influenza virus.
Irrigation and removal of multiple blood clots from bladder and bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Analysis for antibody to Helicobacter pylori (gastrointestinal bacteria).
Crushing of stone in urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Injections of anesthetic and/or steroid drug into upper or middle spine nerve root using imaging guidance.
Body fluid pH level.
Alcohol and/or substance (other than tobacco) abuse structured assessment (e.g., audit, dast), and brief intervention 15 to 30 minutes.
Repair of wound of scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10 sq centimeters or less) of the scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Radiation treatment delivery, superficial.
Destruction of lens tissue using laser.
Levalbuterol, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose, 0.5 mg.
Nasal smear for eosinophils (allergy related white blood cells).
Psychotherapy for crisis.
Family psychotherapy.
Hyaluronan or derivative, monovisc, for intra-articular injection, per dose.
Removal of growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
C-peptide (protein) level.
Laser treatment (total area less than 250 sq centimeters) for inflammatory skin disease.
Injection of contract for X-ray imaging of knee.
Hyaluronan or derivative, genvisc 850, for intra-articular injection, 1 mg.
Placement of scalp electrodes for assessment and recording of responses from several areas of the nerve-brain hearing system.
Manual muscle testing of arm, leg or trunk.
Insertion of drug delivery implant into tissue.
Removal with reinsertion of drug delivery implant into tissue.
Application of skin substitute (wound surface up to 100 sq cm) to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes (first 25 sq cm or less).
Biopsy of bone, open procedure.
Grafix prime, per square centimeter.
Albuterol, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose, 1 mg.
Ipratropium bromide, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, per milligram.
Anesthesia for shock wave therapy for urinary system stones.
Insertion of spinal neurostimulator pulse generator or receiver.
Removal of inflamed or infected skin, up to 10% of body surface.
Incision of toe joint capsule.
Repair of muscle group above knee joint.
Revision of one component of total knee joint prosthesis.
Anesthesia for procedure on heart vessels and chambers.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure on neck or heart artery.
Tying or biopsy of temporal artery (side of skull).
Aspiration of lower spine disc, accessed through the skin.
Partial removal of bone with release of spinal cord or spinal nerves of 1 interspace in upper spine.
Implantation of spinal neurostimulator electrodes.
Coagulation function measurement.
Anesthesia for open or endoscopic total shoulder joint replacement.
Catheterization for collection of specimen, single patient, all places of service.
Subsequent observation care, typically 15 minutes per day.
Hospital observation or inpatient care low severity, 40 minutes per day.
Vaccine for Hepatitis B adult dosage (3 dose schedule) injection into muscle.
Administration of hepatitis b vaccine.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of cranial nerve-supplied muscles on one side of body.
Physician review interpretation and report of motion analysis during walking or functional activity.
Strapping, Unna boot.
Application of vein wound compression system lower leg below knee including ankle and foot.
Evaluation of orthotic or prosthetic use, each 15 minutes.
Hearing assessment of abnormal sounds.
Relocation of tendon of forearm and/or wrist.
Amylase (enzyme) level.
Bilirubin level.
Chemical analysis using chromatography technique.
X-ray of sacroiliac joints, 3 or more views.
High osmolar contrast material, 350-399 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Bundled payments for care improvement initiative home visit for patient assessment performed by a qualified health care professional for individuals not considered homebound including, but not limited to, assessment of safety, falls, clinical status, fluid.
Release of lower spinal cord and/or nerves.
Measuring the stiffness in the liver via elastography.
Myoglobin (muscle protein) level.
Microscopic examination for white blood cells with manual cell count.
Automated white blood cell count.
Platelet count, automated test.
Hepatitis c antibody screening, for individual at high risk and other covered indication(s).
Treatment of speech, language, voice, communication, and/or hearing processing disorder.
Evaluation of speech sound production with evaluation of language comprehension and expression.
Annual, face-to-face intensive behavioral therapy for cardiovascular disease, individual, 15 minutes.
Treatment of swallowing and/or oral feeding function.
Evaluation of swallowing function.
Biofeedback training.
Manual muscle testing of whole body.
Open treatment of broken of lower forearm or growth plate separation with insertion of hardware 3 or more fragments.
Heart rhythm tracing, computer analysis, physician prescribed transmission of patient-triggered events greater than 24-hour EKG up to 30 days.
Insertion of abdominal cavity catheter using an endoscope.
Insertion of abdominal cavity catheter extension, beneath the skin.
Stereotactic radiation treatment management of brain lesions, complete course of treatment consisting of 1 session.
New patient assisted living visit, typically 20 minutes.
Heart rhythm analysis, interpretation and report of 48-hour EKG.
Heart rhythm symptom-related transmission and analysis of 24-hour EKG monitoring up to 30 days.
Biopsy of small bowel using an endoscope.
Measurement of hydrogen in breath to test for GI symptoms.
Insertion of probe into the tear duct.
Destruction and/or removal of (2.0 to 5.0 centimeters) medium growths of the bladder and bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Injection procedure for X-ray imaging of the bladder or during voiding.
Injection or implant of synthetic material into bladder and/or bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Insertion of inflatable bladder canal (urethra) or bladder neck sphincter.
Repair of herniated bladder into vaginal wall.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of urinary bladder and urethra.
Injectable bulking agent, synthetic implant, urinary tract, 1 ml syringe, includes shipping and necessary supplies.
Destruction of tissue encircling lens using en endoscope.
Removal of fluid from chest cavity with insertion of indwelling catheter and imaging guidance, accessed through the skin.
Insertion of catheter (accessed through the skin) into gallbladder using imaging guidance including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Injection of bile duct for X-ray imaging procedure accessed through the skin using imaging guidance including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Aspiration of bladder with insertion of bladder tube to skin surface.
Cciiv4 vac no prsv 0.5 ml im.
Monitoring of gastroesophageal reflux including analysis and interpretation.
Placement of breast localization devices accessed through the skin with ultrasound guidance.
Initiation and management of continued pressured respiratory assistance by mask or breathing tube.
Removal of appendix.
Needle biopsy of liver.
Removal of gallbladder.
Change of breathing tube of windpipe in neck.
Removal of fluid from between lung and chest cavity, open procedure.
Injection by continuous infusion of anesthetic agent, brachial (arm) nerve bundle.
Biopsy of the bladder using an endoscope.
Osteopathic manipulative treatment to 1-2 body regions.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of catheter-delivered implant (accessed through the skin) to left upper heart chamber for appendage closure.
Removal and replacement of defibrillator pulse generator.
Remote evaluations of implantable heart recorder system including physician analysis, review, and report up to 30 days.
Evaluation of single or dual chamber pacing cardioverter-defibrillator and generator at time of implantation or replacement.
Injection, perflutren lipid microspheres, per ml.
Screening cytopathology, cervical or vaginal (any reporting system), collected in preservative fluid, automated thin layer preparation, requiring interpretation by physician.
Control of bleeding in large bowel using an endoscope.
Placement of catheter of gallbladder and pancreas under imaging using an endoscope.
Injection, depo-estradiol cypionate, up to 5 mg.
CT scan of neck.
Injection, ertapenem sodium, 500 mg.
Injection, certolizumab pegol, 1 mg (code may be used for medicare when drug administered under the direct supervision of a physician, not for use when drug is self administered).
Injection, golimumab, 1 mg, for intravenous use.
Injection, gadoteridol, (prohance multipack), per ml.
Anesthesia for heart artery bypass grafting.
Coordinated care fee, physician coordinated care oversight services.
Detection of infectious agent antibody.
Detection test for Strep (Streptococcus, group A).
Insertion of stent, removal of plaque and/or balloon dilation of coronary vessel, accessed through the skin.
Management of radiation therapy, simulation, intermediate.
X-ray of paranasal sinus, less than 3 views.
CT scan of middle spine with contrast.
Prealbumin (protein) level.
Red blood count automated, with additional calculations.
Reticulated (young) platelet measurement.
Injection, furosemide, up to 20 mg.
Replacement of aortic valve with prosthetic valve, open procedure.
Injection of chemical agent into multiple veins of same leg.
Multiple incisions for removal of varicose veins of arm or leg.
Application of short leg cast (below knee to toes), walking or ambulatory type.
Sodium fluoride f-18, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 30 millicuries.
Injection, levoleucovorin calcium, 0.5 mg.
Injection, ferric carboxymaltose, 1 mg.
Injection, granisetron hydrochloride, 100 mcg.
Injection, heparin sodium, (heparin lock flush), per 10 units.
Injection, ranitidine hydrochloride, 25 mg.
Injection, nivolumab, 1 mg.
Injection, triamcinolone hexacetonide, per 5mg.
Muscle flap wound repair at trunk.
Partial removal of small bowel.
Partial removal of small and large bowel with attachment of small and large bowel.
Insertion of catheter for diagnostic evaluation of right heart structures.
Technetium tc-99m medronate, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 30 millicuries.
Technetium tc-99m mebrofenin, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 15 millicuries.
Technetium tc-99m sulfur colloid, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 20 millicuries.
Technetium tc-99m mertiatide, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 15 millicuries.
Injection, sincalide, 5 micrograms.
Shaving of over 2.0 centimeters skin growth of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Injection of agent into vein to assess blood flow of skin graft or flap.
X-ray of soft tissue of neck.
Incision of artery in one thigh for insertion of prosthesis, open procedure.
Removal of blood clot and portion of artery of neck.
Removal of skin debris and drainage of mastoid cavity.
Injection, cefepime hydrochloride, 500 mg.
Injection, vancomycin hcl, 500 mg.
Albuterol, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, concentrated form, 1 mg.
Analysis of pressure of upper limb artery with interpretation and report.
Removal of abdominal cavity lymph nodes using an endoscope.
Abdominal removal of uterus (250 grams or less) with removal of tubes and/or ovaries using an endoscope.
X-ray of lower spinal canal with radiological supervision and interpretation.
CT scan of cranial cavity.
X-ray of middle spine, minimum of 4 views.
CT scan of upper spine with contrast.
Brief emotional or behavioral assessment.
Assessment of hearing loss with placement of probe in ear to assess ear bone contraction.
MRA scan of head blood vessels before and after contrast.
CT scan guidance for stereotactic localization.
Injection of bone cement into body of lower spine bone accessed through the skin using imaging guidance.
Albumin (protein) level.
Carbon dioxide (bicarbonate) level.
Lactic acid level.
Drug tests(s), presumptive, any number of drug classes; any number of devices or procedures, (eg immunoassay) read by instrument-assisted direct optical observation (eg, dipsticks, cups, cards, cartridges), includes sample validation when performed, per da.
Injection, immune globulin (privigen), intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg.
Injection, lorazepam, 2 mg.
Injection, pamidronate disodium, per 30 mg.
Injection, sodium ferric gluconate complex in sucrose injection, 12.5 mg.
MRI scan of arm joint before and after contrast.
Chemotherapy administration, intravenous infusion technique; initiation of infusion in the office/other outpatient setting using office/other outpatient setting pump/supplies, with continuation of the infusion in the community setting (e.g., home, domicili.
Injection, hydrocortisone sodium succinate, up to 100 mg.
Injection, oxaliplatin, 0.5 mg.
Injection, pemetrexed, 10 mg.
Injection, trastuzumab, 10 mg.
Extended color vision examination.
Insertion of breast prosthesis following breast repositioning, removal or reconstruction.
Fusion of great toe.
Incision of nasal sinus using an endoscope.
Revision of abdominal cavity catheter using an endoscope.
Repair of hernia at navel patient age 5 years or older.
Insertion or replacement of peripheral or gastric neurostimulator generator.
Dihydroxyvitamin D, 1, 25 level.
Prolactin (milk producing hormone) level.
Sex hormone binding globulin (protein) level.
Home sleep test (hst) with type iii portable monitor, unattended; minimum of 4 channels: 2 respiratory movement/airflow, 1 ecg/heart rate and 1 oxygen saturation.
Injection, adenosine, 1 mg (not to be used to report any adenosine phosphate compounds).
Radiation treatment delivery,3 or more separate treatment areas, custom blocking, tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, compensators, electron beam; 20 mev or greater.
Protein measurement, body fluid.
Coagulation function screening test with interpretation and report.
Detection test for Hepatitis B surface antigen.
Injection, immune globulin, (octagam), intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg.
Injection, omalizumab, 5 mg.
Dilation of tear-drainage opening.
Blood test panel for electrolytes (sodium potassium, chloride, carbon dioxide).
Carbamazepine level.
Cyclosporine level.
Digoxin level.
Valproic acid level.
Gentamicin (antibiotic) level.
Levetiracetam level.
Phenytoin level.
Tacrolimus level.
Vancomycin (antibiotic) level.
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level, serum.
Ammonia level.
Angiotensin l - converting enzyme (ACE) level.
Cortisol (hormone) measurement.
Glucose (sugar) level on body fluid.
Glycated protein level.
Gonadotropin, follicle stimulating (reproductive hormone) level.
Lipoprotein level.
Myeloperoxidase (white blood cell enzyme) measurement.
Organic acid level.
Blood osmolality (concentration) measurement.
Phosphatase (enzyme) measurement.
Total protein level.
Sodium level.
Triglycerides level.
Zinc level.
Antibody identification test for platelet antibodies.
Measurement of antibody to noninfectious agent.
Microsomal antibodies (autoantibody) measurement.
Confirmation test for antibody to Human T-cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV) or HIV.
Analysis for antibody to Hepatitis D virus.
Analysis for antibody to HIV-1 and HIV-2 virus.
Hepatitis B surface antibody measurement.
Hepatitis Be antibody measurement.
Measurement of Hepatitis A antibody.
Measurement of Hepatitis A antibody (IgM).
Analysis for antibody, Treponema pallidum.
Hepatitis C antibody measurement.
Screening test for red blood cell antibodies.
Blood group typing (ABO).
Blood typing for Rh (D) antigen.
Concentration of specimen for infectious agents.
Stool culture.
Fungal culture (mold or yeast).
Fungal culture, yeast.
Culture for acid-fast bacilli.
Identification of organisms by immunologic analysis.
Special stain for microorganism.
Detection test for clostridium difficile toxins (stool pathogen).
Detection test for Hepatitis Be surface antigen.
Immunologic analysis for detection of organism.
Detection test for clostridium difficile.
Detection test for Hepatitis B virus.
Detection test for Hepatitis C virus.
Analysis test for Hepatitis C virus.
Body fluid cell count.
Complete cbc, automated (hgb, hct, rbc, wbc, without platelet count) and automated wbc differential count.
Complete (cbc), automated (hgb, hct, rbc, wbc; without platelet count).
Insertion of electronic device into bladder with bladder canal (urethra) pressure studies.
Timed assessment of bladder emptying.
Vaginal defect repair using an endoscope.
Partial removal of uterus (250 grams or less), tubes and/or ovaries with retention of cervix using an endoscope,.
Phosphatase (enzyme) level.
Total protein level, blood.
Administration of vaccine.
Removal of skin of finger or toe nail.
Thyroglobulin (thyroid related hormone) level.
Thyroglobulin (thyroid protein) antibody measurement.
White blood cell count.
Gonadotropin, chorionic (reproductive hormone) level.
Detection test for chlamydia.
Detection test for Neisseria gonorrhoeae (gonorrhoeae bacteria).
Detection test for human papillomavirus (hpv).
Detection test for organism.
Removal of malignant growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Repair of wound (2.5 centimeters or less) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, and/or mouth.
Fungal culture (mold or yeast) of skin, hair, or nail.
Removal of foreign body, external eye, cornea with slit lamp examination.
Removal of stomach reduction device and port beneath the skin using an endoscope.
Relocation of patient skin (20 sq centimeters or less) to scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Injection, iron sucrose, 1 mg.
Radiation treatment devices, design and construction, intermediate.
Removal of underarm lymph nodes.
Ultrasound follow-up study.
Injection of medication into cavity behind eye.
Application of allergenic extract skin patch with reaction analysis.
Diagnostic examination of anus and rectum under anesthesia.
Manipulation of stone in urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Closed treatment of broken ankle.
Anesthesia for diagnostic X-ray procedure (accessed through the skin) on spine and spinal cord.
Glaucoma testing of eye fluid pressure.
Application of whirlpool therapy to 1 or more areas.
X-ray of spine, 4 or 5 views.
Injection, clonidine hydrochloride, 1 mg.
Injection, hydromorphone, up to 4 mg.
Injection, morphine sulfate, preservative-free for epidural or intrathecal use, 10 mg.
Stereotactic creation of lesion of cranial nerve, accessed through the skin.
Use of operating microscope.
Protein test for diagnosis and monitoring of bladder cancer.
Incision to repair tendon covering at wrist.
Removal of cyst at wrist.
Release of tissues of palm, accessed through the skin.
Removal of nasal air passage.
Tying of dilated veins of stomach and/or esophagus using an endoscope.
Rubber banding of large bowel using an endoscope.
Removal of polyps or growths in large bowel using an endoscope.
Destruction of large bowel growths using an endoscope.
Tying of large bowel using an endoscope.
Hyperbaric oxygen under pressure, full body chamber, per 30 minute interval.
Removal of foreign body in external eye, conjunctiva or sclera.
Irrigation of nasal sinus.
Injection, hydroxyzine hcl, up to 25 mg.
Removal of bone implant.
Partial release of tissues of palm, open procedure.
Removal of tissue of palm.
Injection, abatacept, 10 mg (code may be used for medicare when drug administered under the direct supervision of a physician, not for use when drug is self administered).
Injection, tocilizumab, 1 mg.
Incision of eardrum with insertion of eardrum tube under general anesthesia.
Hemoglobin measurement, per day.
MRA scan of neck blood vessels with contrast.
Relocation of arm vein with connection to arm artery, open procedure.
Insertion of catheter into artery on one side of chest for diagnosis or treatment including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Diagnostic examination of the bladder, bladder canal (urethra), and urinary duct (ureter) or kidney using an endoscope.
Imaging of urinary tract using infusion technique.
Technetium tc-99m oxidronate, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 30 millicuries.
Nuclear medicine study of vessels of heart using drugs or exercise single study.
Management of radiation therapy, intermediate.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of shoulder joint.
Biopsy of uterine lining.
Placement of mesh to repair incisional or abdominal hernia, open procedure.
Incision and drainage of soft tissue abscess.
Injection of spinal canal to destroy nerve.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on trunk, 5 or more muscles.
Stereotactic radiation treatment management of 1 or more lesions using imaging guidance, per treatment course.
Injection, cefazolin sodium, 500 mg.
Injection, midazolam hydrochloride, per 1 mg.
Ringers lactate infusion, up to 1000 cc.
Nerve transmission studies, 1-2 studies.
Transplantation of stem cells from one cornea to other cornea.
Removal of foreign body in nose.
Destruction of (up to 1 centimeter) growth of eyelid margin.
Temporary closure of eyelids by suture.
Creation of drainage tract from tear sac to the nasal cavity.
Repair duct opening.
Injection for X-ray imaging of aorta above heart valve.
Insertion or replacement of brain neurostimulator generator or receiver.
MRI scan bones of the eye, face, and/or neck.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) level.
Calcitonin (hormone) level.
Gonadotropin, luteinizing (reproductive hormone) level.
Wheelchair management, each 15 minutes.
Needle biopsy or removal of lymph nodes.
Nuclear medicine imaging of thyroid.
Drainage of fluid-filled sac (bursa) of foot.
Destruction of malignant growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Partial release of large bowel using an endoscope.
Repair of muscle at esophagus and stomach using an endoscope.
Repair of trapped incisional or abdominal hernia.
Monitoring and localization of seizure activity over 24-hour period using portable 16-channel electroencephalograph (EEG).
Nasal cartilage graft.
Widening of nasal passage.
Platelet function test.
Fine needle aspiration.
Low intensity ultrasound stimulation to aid bone healing, noninvasive (nonoperative).
Dilation of bladder canal (urethra), female.
Placement of temporary pacemaker leads.
Catheter based repair of left lower heart (aortic) valve, accessed through the skin.
Hemoglobin analysis and measurement.
Urine volume measurement.
Fracture assessment of spine bones using dedicated X-ray machine for bone density measurement.
Acute hepatitis panel.
Apolipoprotein level.
Cystatin C (enzyme inhibitor) level.
Lipoprotein (A) level.
Travel allowance one way in connection with medically necessary laboratory specimen collection drawn from home bound or nursing home bound patient; prorated miles actually travelled.
X-ray of eye.
Injection, mepivacaine hydrochloride, per 10 ml.
Removal of malignant growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Destruction of retinal growth by heat or freezing, 1 or more sessions.
Collection and analysis of exhaled air for evaluation of lung function during rest and exercise.
Assessment of speech hearing loss.
Destruction of anal growths.
Destruction of internal anal hemorrhoids.
Partial removal of foot or heel bone.
Correction of bunion.
Removal of malignant growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, or lips.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation treatment (stimulates nerve cells in brain to improve symptoms of depression), per session.
Occupational therapy re-evaluation.
Steroid injection into bladder canal (urethra) stricture using an endoscope.
Treatment of stricture in urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Complex control of nose bleed.
Injection into skin of airborne allergen extracts for immediate reaction analysis.
Irrigation of vagina and/or application of drug to treat infection.
Vaginal fluid chemical analysis for bacteria.
Incision and exploration of chest cavity.
Repair of diseased or bulging (aneurysm) artery of arm.
Exploration of arm or leg for postsurgical bleeding, blood clot, or infection.
Removal of infected graft of arm or leg.
Insertion of central venous catheter and implanted device for infusion beneath the skin.
Removal of blood clot from dialysis graft, open procedure.
Removal of plaque in arteries in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of artery-vein dialysis shunt.
Injection into conjunctiva.
Removal of rib.
Repair of bulging (aneurysm) or tear in abdominal aorta.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of repair of artery of abdomen procedure.
Removal of blood clot and portion of artery of upper thigh artery.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (upper to lower leg artery).
Harvest of vein segment (upper leg to thigh).
Bypass on diseased or blocked groin to upper leg artery.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (upper leg to lower leg arteries).
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery.
Removal of lymph nodes at groin.
Injection of diagnostic or therapeutic substances or markers in esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Ultrasound examination of large bowel using an endoscope.
Destruction of growth or narrowing of lung airway using an endoscope.
Routine foot care by a physician of a diabetic patient with diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting in a loss of protective sensation (lops) to include, the local care of superficial wounds (i.e. superficial to muscle and fascia) and at least the following i.
Preparation of graft site at trunk, arms, or legs (first 100 sq cm or 1% body area infants and children).
Clinical pathology consultation.
Comprehensive, clinical pathology consultation.
Removal of foreign body in external eye, conjunctiva.
Snip incision of tear-drainage opening at inner corner of the eye.
Removal of 1 or more breast growth, open procedure.
Removal of breast growth, open procedure.
Insertion of catheter into breast for radiation therapy using imaging guidance.
Infusion, albumin (human), 25%, 50 ml.
Removal of skin and bone first 20 sq cm or less.
Measurement of substance using immunoassay technique.
Injection, darbepoetin alfa, 1 microgram (non-esrd use).
Recording to evaluate height and duration of heart beats through damaged heart tissue.
Anesthesia for procedure on lower front abdominal wall.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure on artery in brain, heart, or major vessel of chest (aorta).
External counterpulsation, per treatment session.
X-ray of hip with pelvis, minimum of 4 views.
Anesthesia for procedure to repair upper abdominal incisional hernia and/or wound opening.
Anesthesia for examination of uterus using an endoscope.
Insertion of external tube from vein to vein for dialysis.
Hemodialysis procedure with repeated evaluations.
Nuclear medicine study of heart wall motion at rest with evaluation of blood ejection from heart.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (10.1 to 30.0 sq centimeters) of the trunk.
Removal of (3 centimeters or greater) tissue growth beneath the skin of neck or front of chest.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked upper arm artery, open procedure.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked vein, open procedure.
Insertion of central venous catheters, two catheters in two veins, and implanted devices for infusion beneath the skin.
Suture of postsurgical abdominal wall opening.
Injection, calcium gluconate, per 10 ml.
Injection, pyridoxine hcl, 100 mg.
Anesthesia for procedure in chest with 1 lung ventilation.
Harvest of bone fragments for spine surgery graft.
Closed treatment of broken spine bones with casting or bracing.
Removal of one lobe of lung.
Removal of lymph nodes from chest cavity and breast bone.
Measurement of oxygen saturation in blood using ear or finger device.
Destruction of soft tissue in nasal passages.
Destruction of tissue in the bladder, bladder canal (urethra) or surrounding glands using an endoscope.
Incision of the bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Urinalysis using microscope.
Injection, gadobenate dimeglumine (multihance), per ml.
Application of chemical agents activated by ultraviolet light to skin.
Evaluation of heart function using tilt table.
Demonstration and/or evaluation of manual maneuvers to chest wall to assist movement of lung secretions.
X-ray of upper digestive tract, kidneys, urinary ducts (ureters), and bladder with contrast.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of urinary bladder, minimum of 3 views.
Ultrasound of prostate.
Injection, baclofen, 10 mg.
Anesthesia for procedure on mouth including biopsy.
MRI scan of abdomen with contrast.
Removal and tying hemorrhoid group.
Anesthesia for procedure on stomach for obesity including use of an endoscope.
Sleep study attended by a technician.
Insertion or replacement of permanent pacemaker and lower chamber electrodes.
Removal of permanent pacemaker pulse generator.
Removal of defibrillator pulse generator.
Insertion of catheter for recording to identify origin of abnormal heart rhythm.
Removal of growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of the trunk, arms or legs.
Insertion of amniotic membrane to eye surface.
Multiple measurements of eye fluid pressure over an extended time period, same day.
Insertion into windpipe of needle wire, dilator, stent, or tube for oxygen delivery.
Partial removal of tissue of one lung using an endoscope.
Measurement of brain wave (EEG) activity greater than 1 hour.
Measurement and recording of spontaneous brain processing function using magnetic fields.
Injection, potassium chloride, per 2 meq.
Insertion of tissue expanders.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation treatment (stimulates nerve cells in brain to improve symptoms of depression).
Removal of growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Removal of growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Injection of anesthetic agent of multiple rib nerves.
MRA scan of pelvic blood vessels.
MRA scan of leg blood vessels.
MRI scan of blood vessels of abdomen.
Injection, diazepam, up to 5 mg.
Physician supervision of a patient under a medicare-approved hospice (patient not present) requiring complex and multidisciplinary care modalities involving regular physician development and/or revision of care plans, review of subsequent reports of patien.
CT scan of neck before and after contrast.
Ambulance service, conventional air services, transport, one way (fixed wing).
Fixed wing air mileage, per statute mile.
Introduction of catheter into the upper or lower major vein (vena cava).
Attempt to restart heart and lungs.
Infusion into tissue for therapy or prevention up to 1 hour.
Injection, levofloxacin, 250 mg.
Injection, trimethobenzamide hcl, up to 200 mg.
Electronic analysis and reprogramming of spinal canal drug infusion pump.
Revision of dialysis graft, open procedure.
Removal of blood clot and injections to dissolve blood clot from artery or arterial graft using fluoroscopic guidance, accessed through the skin.
Balloon dilation of artery in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Single energy x-ray absorptiometry (sexa) bone density study, one or more sites; appendicular skeleton (peripheral) (e.g., radius, wrist, heel).
Follow-up inpatient consultation, limited, physicians typically spend 15 minutes communicating with the patient via telehealth.
Follow-up inpatient consultation, intermediate, physicians typically spend 25 minutes communicating with the patient via telehealth.
Follow-up inpatient consultation, complex, physicians typically spend 35 minutes communicating with the patient via telehealth.
Telehealth consultation, emergency department or initial inpatient, typically 70 minutes or more communicating with the patient via telehealth.
Insertion of permanent catheter for drainage of lung fluid.
Biopsy of growths in one lung using an endoscope.
Adhesion of the lung linings using an endoscope.
Complete removal of inside lining of chest cavity and lung using an endoscope.
Insertion of catheter in right heart for X-ray imaging of blood vessels or grafts.
Partial removal of kidney using an endoscope.
Diagnostic examination of rectum and large bowel using an endoscope.
Injection of anesthetic agent underarm (axillary) nerve.
Injection, etoposide, 10 mg.
Psychological testing with interpretation and report by technician per hour.
Nuclear medicine study with measurement of blood circulation in the lungs.
Occlusion of abnormal artery, accessed through the skin.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of obstruction of blood vessel via catheter.
Imaging of blood vessel.
Lengthening or shortening of tendon of leg or ankle.
Repair of disrupted collateral ligament of ankle.
Repair of ankle joint with prosthesis.
Removal of malignant growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Removal of malignant growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, or lips.
Transplantation of biceps tendon.
Alignment of knee joint under anesthesia.
Incision of joint capsule of foot and toe.
Removal of shoulder joint tissue using an endoscope.
Removal of joint lining from two or more knee joint compartments using an endoscope.
Therapeutic fracture of nasal passages.
Biopsy and/or removal of polyp of the uterus using an endoscope.
Follow-up physician evaluation and management of a diabetic patient with diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting in a loss of protective sensation (lops) to include at least the following: (1) a patient history, (2) a physical examination that includes: (a).
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of cranial nerve-supplied muscles on both sides of body.
Removal of tendon of finger.
Application of non-moveable, hinged finger splint.
Removal of scar tissue to release tendon of palm or finger.
Repair of joint capsule, hand and finger.
Fusion of thumb at wrist with bone graft.
Removal or repair of wrist joint lining using an endoscope.
Removal of over one-fourth of the eyelid involving lid margin.
X-ray of sacroiliac joints, less than 3 views.
Slings.
Refilling and maintenance of portable pump.
Injection, filgrastim (g-csf), biosimilar, 1 microgram.
Laser treatment of heart muscle to improve blood flow during open procedure.
Destruction of tissue and reconstruction of right upper heart on heart-lung machine.
CT scan bone mineral density study 1 or more sites.
Anesthesia for procedure on heart and great blood vessels on heart-lung machine.
Refilling and maintenance by physician of implantable spinal or brain drug delivery pump or reservoir.
Implantation of biologic implant to soft tissue.
Destruction of skin growth (less than 10 sq centimeters).
Creation of flap graft to eyelids, nose, ears, lips, or mouth.
Muscle flap wound repair at head and neck.
Partial removal of nasal sinus.
Shortening or advancement of upper eyelid muscle to correct drooping or paralysis.
Correction of widely-opened upper eyelid.
Removal of up to one-fourth of the eyelid involving lid margin.
Biopsy of sclera.
Repair of conjunctiva.
Plastic repair of tear ducts.
Multiple measurements and graphic recordings of the amount and speed of breathed air, before and following medication administration.
Repair of incisional hernia using an endoscope.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles at bladder and bowel openings.
Allergy testing with drugs or biologicals into or within the skin, immediate type reaction, including test interpretation and report.
Destruction of malignant growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of trunk, arms, or legs.
Analysis for antibody to Mycoplasma (bacteria).
Injection, doxorubicin hydrochloride, 10 mg.
Cyclophosphamide, 100 mg.
Insertion of stents in artery in one side of groin, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Injection, tetanus immune globulin, human, up to 250 units.
Insertion of catheter into each additional abdominal, pelvic or leg artery.
Occlusion of tumors or obstructed blood vessel with radiological supervision and interpretation, roadmapping, and imaging guidance.
X-ray of upper digestive tract, kidneys, urinary ducts (ureters), and bladder.
X-ray upper GI series, with small bowel films.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of previous placed shunt.
Electron microscopy for diagnosis.
Insertion of device into bladder to measure pressure of urine flow.
Plastic repair of vagina and tissue separating vagina, rectum, and bladder.
Repair of herniated rectum and bladder into vaginal wall.
Vaginal repair of pelvic ligaments.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted simple spinal cord or peripheral neurostimulator generator system during or after surgery, first hour.
Examination of bladder and bladder canal (urethra) for treatment of female urethral syndrome using an endoscope.
Reconstructive surgery to correct angle penis.
Insertion of multi-component inflatable penile prosthesis.
Partial removal of collar bone.
Removal or repair of collar bone and shoulder blade joint.
Incision of shoulder tendon.
Occlusion of arterial or venous hemorrhage with radiological supervision and interpretation, roadmapping, and imaging guidance.
Removal of blood clot and injection to dissolve blood clot from head artery using fluoroscopic guidance, accessed through skin.
Closed treatment of broken toe.
Diagnostic examination of voice box using an endoscope.
Replacement of contact lens.
Anesthesia for procedure on eye for corneal transplant.
Injection, immune globulin, (gammagard liquid), non-lyophilized, (e.g., liquid), 500 mg.
Not otherwise classified, antineoplastic drugs.
Insertion of pacemaker pulse generator with existing dual leads.
Insertion of pacing defibrillator pulse generator with existing multiple leads.
Removal of electrode from right heart.
Removal of defibrillator electrodes.
Insertion of catheter for recording upper heart rhythm.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted complex cranial neurostimulator generator system during or after surgery, first hour.
Preparation of graft site at trunk, arms, or legs.
Skin graft at trunk, arms, or legs (first 100 sq cm or less, or 1% body are of infants and children).
Skin graft at trunk, arms, or legs.
Repair of incisional or abdominal hernia.
CT scan of heart with evaluation of blood vessel calcium.
Screening cytopathology, cervical or vaginal (any reporting system), collected in preservative fluid, automated thin layer preparation, screening by cytotechnologist under physician supervision.
Arformoterol, inhalation solution, fda approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, 15 micrograms.
Insertion of anterior spinal instrumentation for spinal stabilization, 4 to 7 vertebral segments.
Removal of lower spine bone and growth.
Heart artery bypass to repair multiple arteries.
Injection procedure to correct abnormally thickened penile tissue.
Ultrasound limited scan of penile arterial inflow and venous outflow.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked major coronary artery or branch (accessed through the skin).
Preparation with instillation of fecal microbiota by any method, including assessment of donor specimen.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of lung artery, contrast inserted by catheter or injection into vein.
Injection, carfilzomib, 1 mg.
Removal of infected skin, tissue or muscle of genitals, perineum, or abdomen.
Release of large bowel from spleen and abdominal wall.
Partial removal of large bowel using an endoscope.
Oral introduction of long drainage tube into small bowel.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of placement of long small bowel tube procedure.
Analysis and report of external EKG recording for more than 48 hours up to 21 days.
Anesthesia for closed procedure on hip joint.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure on vein or lymph system.
Injection, atropine sulfate, 0.01 mg.
Injection, azacitidine, 1 mg.
Injection, irinotecan, 20 mg.
Injection, octreotide, depot form for intramuscular injection, 1 mg.
Cell examination.
Deep biopsy of bone using needle or trocar.
Repair of wound (2.6 to 5.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, and/or mucous membranes.
Removal of suture around skin surface tube with change of bladder tube.
Destruction of malignant growth (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) of trunk, arms, or legs.
Destruction of malignant growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Destruction of malignant growth (2.1 to 3.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Imaging of voice box with speech evaluation.
Placement of graft to aorta on heart-lung machine.
Anesthesia for procedure on arteries of upper arm and elbow.
Injection or mechanical removal of spinal canal scar tissue, percutaneous procedure, accessed through the skin, multiple sessions in 1 day.
Vaccine for influenza injection into skin.
Repair of toe tendon, accessed through the skin.
Removal of a segment of lung tissue using an endoscope.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of opening of digestive tract procedure.
Occlusion of artery (other than hemorrhage or tumor) with radiological supervision and interpretation, roadmapping, and imaging guidance.
Electrophoresis, laboratory testing technique.
Injection, pembrolizumab, 1 mg.
Uric acid level.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of knee joint.
Colorectal cancer screening; flexible sigmoidoscopy.
Aspiration and/or injection of cysts.
Removal (less than 1.5 centimeters) muscle growth of hand or finger.
Repair of ligament of hand or finger joint.
Release of nerve requiring use of operating microscope.
Ultrasound scanning for blood clot detection in head and neck vessel blood flow (inside the brain).
Injection, bendamustine hcl, 1 mg.
Injection, docetaxel, 1 mg.
Testing of lung function at high altitude with supplemental oxygen delivery.
Provision of test materials and equipment for home inr monitoring of patient with either mechanical heart valve(s), chronic atrial fibrillation, or venous thromboembolism who meets medicare coverage criteria; includes: provision of materials for use in the.
Application of allergenic extract onto mucous membrane of eye with reaction analysis.
Ultrasound study of arteries and arterial grafts of both arms.
Removal of growth of tongue and/or vocal cord stripping using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Injection of vocal cords using an endoscope.
Removal of lymph nodes, muscle, and tissue of neck.
Insertion of probe in esophagus for continuous heart ultrasound monitoring and assessment of functional changes.
Comprehensive surgical pathology consultation and report.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerves, muscles, tendons, and fascia of lower leg, ankle, and foot.
Destruction and/or removal of large growths of the bladder using an endoscope.
Biofeedback training, perineal muscles, anorectal or urethral sphincter.
Insertion of central venous catheters for infusion, two catheters in two veins.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of major chest vein.
Antibody identification test for white blood cell antibodies.
Beta 2 glycoprotein 1 antibody (autoantibody) measurement.
Cardiolipin antibody (tissue antibody) measurement.
Tuberculosis test.
Injection of anesthetic agent, neck nerve bundle.
Biopsy and scraping of the cervix using an endoscope.
D&C for diagnosis and/or therapy (non-obstetrical).
Realignment of the eye with repair of one horizontal eye muscle.
Realignment of the eye with repair of one vertical muscle.
Realignment of eye having scarring or restrictive muscle movement.
Insertion of adjustable sutures during eye muscle surgery.
Destruction of malignant growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of trunk, arms, or legs.
Anesthesia for procedure on upper spine and spinal cord.
Repair of knee joint using an endoscope.
Evaluation, testing, and programming adjustment of implantable, patient activated heart recorder system including physician analysis, review, and report.
Evaluation, physician analysis, review, report, and programming adjustment of single, dual, or multiple lead pacemaker system.
Evaluation and programming adjustment of defibrillator with analysis, review and report.
Insertion of radiation therapy devices in prostate gland for radiation therapy guidance.
Tissue marker, implantable, any type, each.
Transfer of skin flap to eyelids, nose, ears, or lips.
Obtaining ear cartilage for grafting.
Replacement of valve between left upper and lower chambers on heart-lung machine.
Fusion sacroiliac joint through the skin or minimally invasive using image guidance.
Physician services for outpatient heart rehabilitation with continuous EKG monitoring per session.
Introduction of saline or X-ray contrast material for X-ray imaging of the uterus and tubes.
Removal of ovaries and/or tubes using an endoscope.
Ultrasound of uterus.
Removal and shaving of hip joint socket cartilage using an endoscope.
Removal of foreign body from tissue, accessed beneath the skin.
Removal of growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Removal of outer layer of cornea.
Destruction of lesion of cornea.
Incisions to cornea to correct astigmatism.
Destruction of vascular growth between retina and sclera, 1 or more sessions.
Removal of eyelashes.
Repair of a turning-outward defect of upper or lower eyelid using heat.
Incision and drainage of eye cyst.
Removal of (up to 1 centimeter) growth of sclera.
Destruction of growth of sclera.
Release of scar tissue from eyelids.
Release of tissue at tear duct opening.
Ultrasound to determine length from cornea to retina.
Placement of stent in esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
All potassium hydroxide (koh) preparations.
Release of nerve of hand or foot.
Removal of growth of peripheral nerve.
Implantation of nerve end into bone or muscle.
Anesthesia for bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy at pelvic bone.
Measurement of brain activity (EEG) during surgery.
Measurement of electrical activity (EEG) outside the brain during surgery.
Mapping of electrical brain wave activity (EEG) using electrodes on brain surface to provoke seizure activity or assess brain function, first hour.
Injection procedure through the bladder and bladder canal (urethra) for X-ray imaging.
Application of rigid total contact leg cast.
Amikacin (antibiotic) level.
Lithium level.
Phenobarbital level.
Theophylline level.
Blood gases measurement.
Blood glucose (sugar) tolerance test.
Urine sodium level.
Gonadotropin (reproductive hormone) analysis.
Syphilis detection test.
Bacterial blood culture.
White blood cell measure, stool specimen.
Collection of venous blood by venipuncture or urine sample by catheterization from an individual in a skilled nursing facility (snf) or by a laboratory on behalf of a home health agency (hha).
Removal of excessive skin and tissue beneath the skin of abdomen.
Implantation of peripheral nerve neurostimulator electrodes, accessed through the skin.
Exercises to correct eyeball muscle imbalances.
Diagnostic CT scan of large bowel.
Release and/or relocation of cranial nerve.
Estradiol (hormone) level.
Insulin measurement.
Smear for parasites.
T cell count and ratio.
Detection test for HIV-1 virus.
Thallium tl-201 thallous chloride, diagnostic, per millicurie.
Anesthesia for vaginal biopsy of cervix, uterine lining, or external genitalia.
Repositioning of lens prosthesis.
Impression and custom preparation of outer ear prosthesis.
Tissue transfer repair of wound (30.0 sq centimeters).
Biopsy or removal of lymph nodes of neck, open procedure.
Anesthesia for incision of ear drum.
Tc-99m from non-highly enriched uranium source, full cost recovery add-on, per study dose.
Arthroscopy, knee, surgical, for removal of loose body, foreign body, debridement/shaving of articular cartilage (chondroplasty) at the time of other surgical knee arthroscopy in a different compartment of the same knee.
Monitoring and recording of gastroesophageal reflux through nose including analysis and interpretation.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA-S) hormone level.
Progesterone (reproductive hormone) level.
Vitamin B-1 (thiamine) level.
Thyroxine binding globulin (thyroid related protein) level.
Analysis for antibody to Cytomegalovirus (CMV).
Analysis for antibody to Epstein-Barr virus (mononucleosis virus).
Analysis for antibody to Herpes simplex virus, type 1.
Analysis for antibody to Herpes simplex virus, type 2.
Analysis for antibody to varicella-zoster virus (chicken pox).
Detection test for HIV-1 and HIV-2.
Removal of thyroid.
Removal or exploration of parathyroid glands.
Single plane imaging procedure.
Evaluation, recording, and interpretation of swallowing using an endoscope.
Repair of wound (2.5 centimeters or less) of neck, hands, feet, and/or genitals.
Medical nutrition therapy performed in a group setting, each 30 minutes.
Removal of growth of thigh or knee bone.
Injection, dalteparin sodium, per 2500 iu.
5% dextrose/normal saline (500 ml = 1 unit).
Injection, mannitol, 25% in 50 ml.
Injection, romiplostim, 10 micrograms.
Injection, cisplatin, powder or solution, 10 mg.
X-ray of chest, minimum of 4 views.
Removal of kidney and lymph nodes using an endoscope.
Fitting of contact lens for management of corneal degeneration.
Injection, dobutamine hydrochloride, per 250 mg.
Ultrasound of eye tissue and structures.
Shaving of over 2.0 centimeters skin growth of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Tying or banding of a passage between an artery and vein.
Application of uniplane external bone fixation on one arm or leg.
Incision to repair shoulder joint.
Closed treatment of broken or growth plate separate of forearm bone at wrist with manipulation.
Incision of hip joint with exploration or removal of loose or foreign body.
Exploration, drainage, or removal of foreign body in knee joint.
Release of ligaments at outer aspect of knee joint using an endoscope.
X-ray of spine, minimum of 6 views.
CT scan limited or follow-up study.
Destruction of malignant growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of trunk, arms, or legs.
Destruction of malignant growth (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Destruction of malignant growth (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Repair of knee cap with insertion of prosthesis.
Revision of lower thigh bone and both shin bone components of total knee joint prosthesis.
Biopsy of lung airways using an endoscope.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted complex deep brain neurostimulator generator system.
Injection, rimabotulinumtoxinb, 100 units.
Injection, incobotulinumtoxin a, 1 unit.
Open treatment of ligament tear at ankle joint.
Red blood cell hemoglobin concentration.
Removal of growth of chest wall and ribs, open procedure.
Removal of tumor and breast tissue, accessed beneath the skin.
Partial removal of large bowel.
Injection, cefoxitin sodium, 1 gm.
Repair of wound (1.1 to 2.5 centimeters) of scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Mapping of electrical brain wave activity (EEG) to provoke seizure activity or assess brain function.
Muscle flap wound repair of leg.
Removal of growth (0.6 to 1.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Evaluation of retinal response to light.
Injection, daptomycin, 1 mg.
Insertion of instrumentation to pelvic bones.
Injection, fulvestrant, 25 mg.
Injection, gadoxetate disodium, 1 ml.
Oral administration of radioactive material therapy agent.
X-ray of both sides of the ribs, 3 views.
X-ray of both sides of the ribs including the chest, minimum of 4 views.
Removal of growth in cavity behind eye.
Vaccine for influenza administered into muscle, preservative and antibiotic free.
Whole body skin photography.
Initial physician evaluation and management of a diabetic patient with diabetic sensory neuropathy resulting in a loss of protective sensation (lops) which must include: (1) the diagnosis of lops, (2) a patient history, (3) a physical examination that cons.
Transplant of both lungs on heart-lung machine.
Preparation of two cadaver lungs for transplantation.
Examination of chest using an endoscope with lymph node biopsy.
Removal or relocation of corneal conjunctiva.
Transplantation of tissue from one cornea to other cornea.
Repair of iris and lens tissue.
Exchange of lens prosthesis.
Partial removal of eye fluid between the lens and retina.
Realignment of the eye with repair of two horizontal eye muscles.
Injection, mitomycin, 5 mg.
Processing, preserving and transporting corneal tissue.
Collection and analysis of exhaled air for evaluation of lung function at rest.
Insertion of catheter for recording of right lower heart chamber rhythm.
Insertion of temporary pacemaker electrode for diagnostic upper heart pacing.
Insertion of temporary pacemaker electrode for diagnostic lower heart pacing.
Injection, morphine sulfate, up to 10 mg.
Wound closure utilizing tissue adhesive(s) only.
Removal of plaque and insertion of stent in major coronary artery or branch, accessed through the skin.
Contrast injections for x-ray imaging through existing tube in stomach, small bowel or large bowel, accessed through the skin.
Injection, ropivacaine hydrochloride, 1 mg.
Open treatment of broken upper arm bone.
Interpretation and report of genetic testing.
Removal of malignant growth (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, or lips.
Implantation of neurostimulator electrodes in brain.
Creation of brain fluid drainage shunt.
Partial removal of bone and/or release of sacral spinal cord or spinal nerves.
Removal of fluid-filled sac (bursa) of wrist joint lining or forearm tendon.
Repair of hip joint capsule.
Partial replacement of thigh bone at hip joint with prosthesis.
Incision of upper thigh bone at hip joint.
Closed treatment of broken thigh bone with manipulation.
Removal or bivalving of gauntlet, boot, or body cast.
Cast supplies, short arm cast, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Creation of shunt to improve eye fluid flow.
Injection, triptorelin pamoate, 3.75 mg.
Injection, thiamine hcl, 100 mg.
Detection test for Trichomonas vaginal (genital parasite).
Infectious agent enzymatic activity to detect organism.
Repair of tendon or muscle of forearm and/or wrist.
Application of cast to hand and lower forearm.
Application of long arm splint (shoulder to hand).
Release of nerve of finger.
Injection, papaverine hcl, up to 60 mg.
Training in use of prosthesis for arms and/or legs each 15 minutes.
Injection, penicillin g benzathine, 100,000 units.
Creation of flap graft to trunk.
Creation of flap graft to scalp, arms, or legs.
Creation of flap graft to forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, or feet.
Removal of (less than 2 centimeters) muscle growth of face and scalp.
Removal of (2 centimeters or greater) muscle growth of face and scalp.
Removal of (less than 2 centimeters) soft tissue growth of face or scalp.
Removal of (2 centimeters or greater) soft tissue growth of face or scalp.
Removal of (less than 5 centimeters) muscle growth of neck or front of chest.
Repair of tendon, finger and/or hand.
Release of nerve of arm or leg, open procedure.
Replacement of stomach to small bowel tube using fluoroscopic guidance with contrast, accessed through the skin.
Placement of catheter of kidney, accessed through the skin using imaging guidance with radiological supervision and interpretation.
CT scan of arm with contrast.
MRI scan of arm before and after contrast.
Declotting infusion of implanted central venous access device or catheter.
Injection, immune globulin, (gamunex-c/gammaked), non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg.
Tissue graft.
Removal of pituitary gland tumor using an endoscope.
Negative pressure wound therapy, surface area less than or equal to 50 square centimeters, per session.
Removal or crushing kidney stone (over 2 centimeters) or insert kidney stent using an endoscope, accessed through the skin.
Injection procedure for x-ray imaging of kidney and urinary duct (ureter) using imaging guidance including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Nuclear medicine study of digestive tract.
Red blood count, manual test.
Insertion of central venous catheter for infusion with port beneath the skin, patient 5 years or older.
Blood vessel injection procedure.
Injection of chemical agent into single vein.
Destruction of insufficient vein of arm or leg using imaging guidance, accessed through the skin.
Vaginal removal of uterus (250 grams or less), tubes, and/or ovaries using an endoscope.
Fitzgerald factor (clotting factor) measurement.
5% dextrose/water (500 ml = 1 unit).
Bladder procedure using an endoscope.
Injection, abobotulinumtoxina, 5 units.
Biopsy of muscle.
Repair of nerve with graft.
Physician services for outpatient heart cardiac rehabilitation per session.
Ultrasound of eye using water bath method.
Open treatment of broken ankle.
Removal of bones at second, third, or fourth toe joints.
Physician interpretation and report of measurement and graphic recording of amount and speed of breathed air over 30-day period.
Injection, naltrexone, depot form, 1 mg.
Assessment of muscle signal of pelvic nerves.
Removal of multiple internal and external hemorrhoids.
Closed treatment of broken upper arm bone at shoulder.
Multiple measurements of oxygen saturation in blood using ear or finger device.
Skin graft (2 centimeters) to tip of finger or toe.
Skin graft at trunk, arms, or legs (first 100 sq cm or less, or 1% body area of infants and children).
Removal of pressure sore at sacrum in preparation of muscle flap or skin graft.
Injection, butorphanol tartrate, 1 mg.
Removal of remaining or regrown prostate tissue with control of bleeding using an endoscope.
Removal of postsurgical bladder neck contracture.
Revision of dialysis graft with removal of blood cot, open procedure.
Skin graft of face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes (first 100 sq cm or less, or 1% body area of infants and children).
Injection, cefotaxime sodium, per gm.
Acetylcysteine, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, per gram.
Release of sciatic nerve, open procedure.
Release of nerve of upper leg, open procedure.
Removal of growth of mouth.
Analysis of urine.
Creation of permanent eyelid margin scarring with relocation of eyelid tissue.
Suture repair of a turning-outward defect of upper or lower eyelid.
Test for detecting genes associated with prostate cancer.
Detection test for herpes simplex virus.
Special stained specimen slides to examine tissue and frozen preparation of specimen including interpretation and report.
Evaluation of specimen enzymes.
Nerve teasing preparation.
Radiopharmaceutical, diagnostic, not otherwise classified.
Stereotactic treatment of brain growth.
Sensory technique to enhance processing and adaptation to environmental demands, each 15 minutes.
Nuclear medicine study of liver.
Incision of tissue of front and/or lateral muscle compartments of lower leg.
Open treatment of broken chest bone.
Balloon dilation of artery in one side of groin, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Removal of plaque and insertion of stents into artery in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Insertion of intravascular stents in artery (except lower extremity, cervical carotid, extracranial vertebral or intrathoracic carotid, intracranial, or coronary), open or accessed through the skin, with radiological supervision and interpretation.
Repair of wound (1.1 to 2.5 centimeters) of trunk.
Radiation therapy consultation.
Biopsy of mouth.
Preparation of corneal tissue for transplant.
Removal of tissue, muscle, and membrane to correct eyelid drooping or paralysis.
Nuclear medicine study brain with metabolic evaluation.
Injection of bladder and urinary duct (ureter) for X-ray imaging.
Placement of flap to repair abdominal wall.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles of voice box.
Application of skin substitute (wound surface greater or equal to 100 sq cm) to trunk, arms, or legs (first 100 sq cm or 1% body area of infants and children).
Application of skin substitute (wound surface greater or equal to 100 sq cm) to trunk, arms, or legs.
Application and removal of dental fixation device.
Imaging of jaws and skull for orthodontic purposes.
Low osmolar contrast material, 100-199 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Injection, glucagon hydrochloride, per 1 mg.
Cast supplies, gauntlet cast (includes lower forearm and hand), adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Cast supplies, short leg splint, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Epifix, per square centimeter.
Placement of breast localization devices accessed through the skin with stereotactic guidance.
Insertion of catheters for recording, pacing, and attempted induction of abnormal rhythm in right upper and lower heart.
IgE (immune system protein) level.
Analysis for antibody to Herpes simplex virus.
High intensity behavioral counseling to prevent sexually transmitted infection; face-to-face, individual, includes: education, skills training and guidance on how to change sexual behavior; performed semi-annually, 30 minutes.
Bone and/or joint imaging, multiple areas.
Destruction of tongue tissue, per session.
Microscopic genetic analysis of nerve tissue.
Insertion of assistive heart blood flow device into aorta, accessed through the skin.
Balloon dilation of pancreatic or bile duct using an endoscope.
Standardized thought processing testing, interpretation, and report per hour.
Development of cognitive skills to improve attention, memory, or problem solving, each 15 minutes.
X-ray of bones of face, less than 3 views.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of chest aorta.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of artery of pelvis.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of major abdominal vein.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of vein of one kidney.
Pathologist examination, dissection, and preparation of tissue.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of hip joint.
Injection of enzyme in palm tissue.
Manipulation of palm pretendinous cord following enzyme injection.
Evaluation of hearing rehabilitation.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of placement of catheter with drainage (accessed through the skin) procedure.
Revision of thigh bone and hip joint prosthesis.
Diagnostic examination of esophagus using an endoscope.
Biopsy of esophagus using an endoscope.
Stereotactic treatment of spine growth.
Destruction of nerve of foot.
Insertion of stents and blood clot protection device in neck artery, open or accessed through the skin.
Health and behavior intervention, group each 15 minutes.
CT scan of congenital heart structure defect with contrast.
Insertion of electrodes for permanent pacemaker or pacing defibrillator device.
Evaluation and management service.
Infusion of drug with evaluation of coronary artery spasm response.
Release or removal of shoulder scar tissue using an endoscope.
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 24 hours or longer with interpretation and report.
Coagulation time measurement.
Removal of thickened heart muscle at left lower heart chamber.
Insertion of lower heart chamber blood flow assist device.
Fusion of middle spine bones, posterior or posterolateral approach.
X-ray of mandible, less than 4 views.
Complex motion imaging procedure on both sides of body.
Crushing, fragmenting, and removal of (less than 2.5 centimeters) bladder stone.
Removal of malignant growth (3.1 to 4 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Clozapine level.
Haloperidol level.
VLDL cholesterol level.
Injection, metoclopramide hcl, up to 10 mg.
Repair of defect of sclera with graft.
Incision to lengthen toe tendon, open procedure.
Injection, phenylephrine and ketorolac, 4 ml vial.
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, when administered to individuals 3 years of age and older, for intramuscular use (not otherwise specified).
Incision of spine bone to correct spinal deformity of spinal column.
Insertion of probe in esophagus for congenital heart ultrasound examination with interpretation and report.
Injection of anesthetic agent, middle or lower spine sympathetic nerves.
Gene analysis (prothrombin, coagulation factor II) A variant.
Gene analysis (coagulation factor V) Leiden variant.
Gene analysis (5, 10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase) common variants.
Acute nursing facility care.
Iodine i-123 sodium iodide, diagnostic, per 100 microcuries, up to 999 microcuries.
Stool lactoferrin (immune system protein) analysis.
Screening test for mononucleosis (mono).
Detection test for cryptosporidium (parasite).
Detection test for giardia (intestinal parasite).
Detection test for bacteria toxin (shiga-like toxin).
Detection test for Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin resistant (MRSA bacteria).
Biopsy of voice box using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Repair to increase depth of mouth.
Plastic or reconstructive repair of the throat.
Anesthesia for procedure on arteries of lower leg including bypass graft.
Removal of fibrous nerve growth from between toes.
Dilation to improve eye fluid flow.
Insertion of eye fluid drainage device.
Revision or repair of operative wound of eye.
Removal of knee joint covering.
Comparison assessment of hearing tones in one or both ears.
Assessment of hearing using speech test with tone filtering.
Application of ultraviolet light to 1 or more areas.
Chemical analysis using spectrophotometry (light).
Complicated removal of foreign body, stone, or stent from bladder canal (urethra) or bladder using an endoscope.
Removal of bladder neck through bladder canal (urethra).
Plasma hemoglobin level.
Assessment and recording of balance system during irrigation of both ears.
Aldolase (enzyme) level.
Cryoglobulin (protein) measurement.
Clotting factor X assessment test.
Phospholipid antibody (autoimmune antibody) measurement.
Syphilis test.
Analysis for antibody to parvovirus.
Insertion of a temporary bladder canal (urethra) stent, male, using an endoscope.
Urinary system procedure.
Ingestion of test items for allergies, 120 minutes.
Detection test for multiple organisms.
Screening cytopathology smears, cervical or vaginal, performed by automated system, with manual rescreening, requiring interpretation by physician.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of MRI guidance for insertion of needle.
Insertion of catheters for recording, pacing, and attempted induction of abnormal rhythm in left lower heart.
Open treatment of broken of lower forearm bone or growth plate separation with insertion of hardware.
High osmolar contrast material, 200-249 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Therapeutic procedures to improve respiratory function or increase strength or endurance of respiratory muscles, two or more individuals (includes monitoring).
Evaluation of eye adaptation to light and dark (rods and cones).
Injection, estradiol valerate, up to 10 mg.
Biopsy of breast accessed through the skin with MRI guidance.
Technetium tc-99m labeled red blood cells, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 30 millicuries.
Injection, immune globulin, intravenous, lyophilized (e.g., powder), not otherwise specified, 500 mg.
Repair of herniated rectum into vaginal wall.
Anatomic repositioning of vagina.
Vaginal removal of uterus (250 grams or less).
Computer algorithm analysis of digital image data.
Ultrasound with elastography.
Repair of windpipe cartilage.
Removal of thyroid and surrounding lymph nodes.
Pessary, rubber, any type.
Partial removal of nasal sinus using an endoscope.
Bone graft harvest.
Severing of shoulder tendon to repair contracture.
Biopsy of tissue of shoulder area.
Incision to repair upper arm bone.
Imaging of urinary tract with injection of contrast into a vein.
Incision of bladder with drainage.
Removal of growth (4.0 centimeters) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Insertion of catheters into main and accessory arteries of both kidneys for imaging including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Laser release of scar tissue between the lens and retina.
Closed treatment of upper arm fracture.
Injection of dye for X-ray imaging of wrist joint.
Incision of tendon of forearm and/or wrist, open procedure.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of wrist joint.
Insertion of catheter into right and left heart for diagnosis.
Oasis wound matrix, per square centimeter.
Release of middle or lower spinal cord and/or nerves.
Chemotherapy procedure.
Injection, immune globulin, (gammaplex), intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg.
Injection, collagenase, clostridium histolyticum, 0.01 mg.
Amputation of both lower leg bones.
Insertion of prosthetic repair of bulging (aneurysm) abdominal or groin artery.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (upper leg to lower thigh artery).
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (upper leg to lower leg artery).
Screening examination of specimen cells.
Application of allergenic extract onto mucous membrane of nose with reaction analysis.
Anesthesia for biopsy of external middle and inner ear.
Insertion of catheter into chest aorta for diagnosis or treatment including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Open treatment of broken and/or dislocated lower spine bones.
Fusion of lower spine bones with removal of disc, lateral approach.
Removal of spinal neurostimulator electrodes.
Diagnostic hearing loss test.
Cholinesterase (enzyme) level.
Measurement for Strep antibody (strep throat).
Microbial toxin or antitoxin assay.
Destruction and reconstruction of right upper heart.
Reoperation of heart artery bypass or valve procedure more than 1 month after original operation.
Fusion of finger joint.
Diagnostic test for sleep disorder.
High dose rate electronic brachytherapy.
Insertion of lower spine spinous process distraction device using imaging guidance.
Management of radiation therapy, simple.
Incision of burn tissue.
Catheterization for collection of specimen(s) (multiple patients).
Injection, sargramostim (gm-csf), 50 mcg.
Infusion, d5w, 1000 cc.
Incision or removal of spinal nerve.
Destruction of skin growth (10.0 to 50.0 sq centimeters).
Removal of portion of external ear.
Anesthesia for removal of uterus including use of an endoscope.
Injections and continuous infusion into lower or sacral spinal canal.
Balloon dilation of groin artery, endovascular, open, or percutaneous approach.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of muscles of arm or leg.
MRI scan of lower spinal canal with contrast.
Insertion of posterior spinal instrumentation for spinal stabilization, 7 to 12 vertebral segments.
Insertion of adjustable stomach reduction device using an endoscope.
Injection, brompheniramine maleate, per 10 mg.
Injection, methocarbamol, up to 10 ml.
Anesthesia for middle or incisional abdominal hernia repair.
Testing of autonomic (sympathetic) nervous system function at least 5 minutes of tilt.
Removal of excessive skin of upper eyelid.
Injection of hemorrhoids.
Imaging and evaluation of deep cells of the eye.
Lung function response to low oxygen.
Injection, haloperidol decanoate, per 50 mg.
Injection, octafluoropropane microspheres, per ml.
MRI of blood flow of heart.
Ceruloplasmin (protein) level.
Stool fat analysis.
Insertion of electronic device into bladder with measurement of urine flow pressure.
Dressing change under anesthesia.
Injection, ibandronate sodium, 1 mg.
Repair of knee joint and removal of scar tissue using an endoscope.
Bile acids level.
Osteocalcin (bone protein) level.
Measurement of complement function (immune system proteins).
Screening test for presence of antibody.
Special stain for parasites.
Abdominal ultrasound of pregnant uterus single or first fetus.
Ultrasound re-evaluation of pregnant uterus, per fetus.
Drainage of fluid from abdominal cavity.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of vein system in head or neck vein.
Removal of breast and underarm lymph nodes.
Total removal of thyroid lobe on one side of the neck.
Excision and reimplantation of parathyroid tissue.
High dose brachytherapy , 2- 12 channels.
Placement of artificial material for pelvic floor defect.
Nuclear medicine imaging from skull base to mid-thigh.
X-ray of both collar bones.
Carboxyhemoglobin (protein) level.
Injection, estrogen  conjugated, per 25 mg.
Destruction of retinal growth with implantation of radiation source, 1 or more sessions.
Procedure at back of eye.
Biopsy of external female genitals.
Insertion of stent in urinary duct (ureter).
Injection, natalizumab, 1 mg.
Strapping of chest.
Strapping of hip.
Removal of prosthesis of shoulder.
Relocation of muscle of shoulder or upper arm.
Revision of total shoulder repair.
Exploration, drainage, or removal of foreign body of hand joint.
Chemotherapy into a lesion, up to and including 7 lesions.
Injection procedure for X-ray imaging of hip under anesthesia.
Application of radiation source, complex.
Repair of muscle separating chest and abdominal cavities.
Vaccine for influenza administered into muscle to children 6-35 months of age.
Incision of hip joint with drainage.
Dressing change and/or removal of burn tissue (less than 5% total body surface).
Partial removal of large bowel and reattachment to rectum using an endoscope.
Removal of total knee joint prosthesis.
Exploration of lower leg artery.
Repair of trapped hernia at navel patient age 5 years or older.
Scraping of cornea for diagnosis.
Removal of embedded foreign body in eyelid.
Prolonged office or other outpatient service each 30 minutes beyond first hour.
Removal of inflamed or infected skin.
MRI scan of leg joint with contrast.
Radioactive material therapy into artery.
Destruction of malignant growth (0.5 centimeters) of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Laser destruction of insufficient vein of arm or leg using imaging guidance, accessed through the skin.
Infectious agent antibody detection by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) technique, hiv-1 and/or hiv-2, screening.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of insertion of catheter into pancreatic duct using an endoscope.
Therapeutic procedures to increase strength or endurance of respiratory muscles, face to face, one on one, each 15 minutes (includes monitoring).
Therapeutic procedures to improve respiratory function, other than described by g0237, one on one, face to face, per 15 minutes (includes monitoring).
Insertion of guide wire for dilation of esophagus using an endoscope.
Preparation and provision of 4 single stinging insect venom for allergen immunotherapy.
Preparation and provision of whole body extract of biting insect or arthropod antigens.
Ultrasound and monitoring of heart of fetus.
Mapcp demonstration - community health teams.
Anesthesia for removal of pancreas including use of an endoscope.
Incision of thyroid cyst or growth.
Evaluation and recording of swallowing and voice box sensory function using an endoscope.
Evaluation, recording, and interpretation of swallowing and voice box sensory function using an endoscope.
Biopsy of the wall dividing the left and right heart.
Laser fragmentation of prostate tissue with control of bleeding using an endoscope.
Detection test for identification of organism.
Insertion and removal of wire or pin with bone traction.
High osmolar contrast material, 250-299 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Placement of skin electrodes for measurement and recording of stimulated sites of the legs.
Incision of foot bone.
Transfusion of blood or blood products.
Red blood cells, leukocytes reduced, each unit.
Ventilation assistance and management, nursing facility per day.
Cast supplies, short leg cast, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Gene analysis (breast cancer 1 and 2) full sequence and common duplication or deletion variants.
MGMT (O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase) gene analysis.
Microsatellite instability analysis.
Gene analysis (breast and related cancers), genomic sequence.
Test for detecting genes associated with cancer of body organ.
Test for detecting genes associated with cancer.
Repair of finger or toe nail bed.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of lower spinal canal.
Vaccine for typhoid for injection into muscle.
Biopsy of kidney.
Preparation of donor kidney for transplantation, open or endoscopic procedure.
Removal (less than 1.5 centimeters) tissue beneath the skin growth of hand or finger.
Reconstruction, computed tomographic angiography of aorta for surgical planning for vascular surgery.
Injection, gadobenate dimeglumine (multihance multipack), per ml.
Transplant of tendon and muscle rerouting at lower leg or ankle.
Removal (less than 1.5 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin of foot or toe.
Open treatment of broken shoulder blade.
Relocation of muscle or tendon of upper arm or elbow.
Manual muscle testing of whole body including hands.
Injection of dye for X-ray imaging of spine disc.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of disc of vertebra, upper or middle spine.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of disc of vertebra, lower spine.
Removal of growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Ultrasound of spinal canal.
Injection, adrenalin, epinephrine, 0.1 mg.
Injection, orphenadrine citrate, up to 60 mg.
Incision of Achilles tendon, accessed through the skin requiring general anesthesia.
Reconstruction of soft tissue angular deformity of toe.
Fusion of foot joint.
Evaluation, testing, and programming adjustment of heart pacemaker with physician analysis, review, and report.
Repair of wound (5.1 to 7.5 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, and/or mouth.
Inhalation of medications with allergic reaction analysis.
Methacholine chloride administered as inhalation solution through a nebulizer, per 1 mg.
Nuclear medicine study of heart wall motion at rest and stress with evaluation of blood ejection from heart, multiple studies.
Drainage of multiple fluid-filled sacs (bursa) of foot.
Incision to release foot tendon, open procedure.
Transplant of deep tendon with muscle rerouting at lower leg or ankle.
Biopsy of back of throat.
Fusion of spine bones for correction of deformity, posterior approach, up to 6 vertebral segments.
Removal of external bone fixation under anesthesia.
Monitoring and localization of seizure activity over 24-hour period using electroencephalograph (EEG).
Repair of torn shoulder tendons.
Biopsy and/or destruction of growth of urinary duct (ureter) or kidney using an endoscope.
Chemical treatment of acne.
Laser treatment (over 500 sq centimeters) for inflammatory skin disease.
Replacement of peripheral venous catheter.
Conversion of stomach tube to small bowel tube using fluoroscopic guidance with contrast, accessed through the skin.
Partial removal of spine bone and growth at lower spinal column.
Retrieval of foreign body of blood vessels, accessed through the skin including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Insertion of catheter into artery for drug infusion for blood clot including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Electrocardiogram, routine ecg with 12 leads; tracing only, without interpretation and report, performed as a screening for the initial preventive physical examination.
Inpatient telehealth pharmacologic management, including prescription, use, and review of medication with no more than minimal medical psychotherapy.
Removal of foreign body of foot tissue, accessed beneath the skin.
Inhaled pneumonia treatment.
Dialysis procedure requiring repeat evaluation.
Laser treatment (250 to 500 sq centimeters) for inflammatory skin disease.
Factor viii (antihemophilic factor, recombinant) per i.u., not otherwise specified.
Factor viii (antihemophilic factor, human) per i.u..
Injection, factor ix (antihemophilic factor, recombinant) per iu, not otherwise specified.
Fragmenting of stone in urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Injection, tobramycin sulfate, up to 80 mg.
Creation of skin and tissue graft.
Removal of (less than 2 centimeter) tissue growth beneath the skin of face and scalp.
X-ray of upper spinal canal with radiological supervision and interpretation.
Removal of foreign body or stone from tear passages.
Partial removal of lung tissue using an endoscope.
Mechanical separation of platelet cells from blood.
Suture of non-obstetrical injury of the vagina and/or skin.
Vaginal removal of uterus (250 grams or less) with repair for stress incontinence.
Evaluation of wearable defibrillator system including connection, disconnection, recording, physician analysis, review, and report.
Aldosterone hormone level.
Renin (kidney enzyme) level.
Diagnostic nuclear medicine procedures.
Evaluation of speech sound production.
Biopsy or removal of lymph nodes, open procedure.
Implantation, revision, or repositioning of spinal canal medication catheter.
Implantation or replacement of programmable spinal canal drug infusion pump.
Removal of scar tissue to release tendon of palm and finger.
X-ray of bones.
Nuclear medicine study of heart function wall motion at rest and stress with evaluation of blood ejection from heart, multiple studies.
Radiation treatment delivery,3 or more separate treatment areas, custom blocking, tangential ports, wedges, rotational beam, compensators, electron beam; up to 5 mev.
Revision of eye fluid drainage shunt with graft.
Vaginal ultrasound of pregnant uterus.
Ultrasound of fetus.
Ultrasound of fetal umbilical artery flow rate.
Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (enzyme) level.
Revision of hip joint prosthesis.
Removal of malignant growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, or lips.
Incision to straighten big toe bone with patient-derived bone graft.
Exploration of blood vessel.
Continuous infusions of local anesthetic for pain control and abdominal wall analgesia on both sides.
Nuclear medicine whole body study for thyroid cancer.
Nuclear medicine study with measurement of blood circulation in the lungs and ventilation.
Telehealth consultation, emergency department or initial inpatient, typically 30 minutes communicating with the patient via telehealth.
Evaluation and recording of swallowing using an endoscope.
Partial removal of knee joint lining using an endoscope.
Removal of growth (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Removal (3.1 to 4.0 centimeters) growth of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Removal of malignant growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Evaluation for use and/or fitting of voice prosthetic device to supplement oral speech.
Tracheo-esophageal voice prosthesis, inserted by a licensed health care provider, any type.
Removal of total lymph nodes of both sides of pelvis and abdominal lymph node biopsy using an endoscope.
Manual maneuvers to chest wall to assist movement of lung secretions.
Detection test for influenza B virus.
Detection test for influenza A virus.
Injection by continuous infusion of anesthetic agent into lumbar nerve bundle, posterior approach.
Rapid desensitization procedure, each hour.
Destruction of tissue encircling lens.
Connection of donor vein to an artery and vein for dialysis.
Injection of anesthetic agent, trigeminal nerve.
Injection, phentolamine mesylate, up to 5 mg.
Vaginal removal of uterus (250 grams or less), tubes, and/or ovaries.
Creation of skin, fat and muscle graft.
Incision to improve eye fluid flow.
Partial removal of breast and underarm lymph nodes.
Repair of trapped incisional hernia using an endoscope.
Application of headframe for stereotactic radiosurgery.
Repair of herniated rectum.
Destruction of vaginal growths.
Reconstruction of up to two-thirds of the eyelid by transfer of opposite eyelid tissue.
Removal of tear sac of the eye.
Destruction of stone in bile or pancreatic duct using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for procedure to drain brain and spinal cord fluid.
Removal of abdominal organ lymph nodes.
Removal of multiple growths of same eyelid.
Somatomedin (growth factor) level.
Partial removal of toe bone.
Functional assessment of the voice box.
Removal of malignant growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of the trunk, arms, or legs.
Revision of reconstructed breast.
Needle biopsy of lung using an endoscope.
Methemoglobin (hemoglobin) analysis.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of spinal artery.
Immunologic analysis for detection of antigen or antibody.
Analysis for antibody to Coccidioides (bacteria).
Radiation treatment management, 1 or 2 treatments.
Ultrasonic guidance for placement of radiation therapy fields.
CT scan of cranial cavity with contrast.
CT scan of cranial cavity before and after contrast.
Protein measurement.
Viral neutralization test to detect viral antibody level.
Abdominal procedure.
Application of skin surface neurostimulator electrodes.
Application of heat wave therapy to 1 or more areas.
Screening cytopathology, cervical or vaginal (any reporting system), collected in preservative fluid, automated thin layer preparation, with screening by automated system and manual rescreening under physician supervision.
Removal of blood accumulation between nail and nail bed.
Injection, testosterone undecanoate, 1 mg.
Respiratory inhaled aerosol treatment to relieve airway obstruction, first hour.
Dilation of narrowing of bladder canal (urethra), male.
Incision of shoulder tendons.
Removal of pressure sore and lower pelvic bone in preparation of muscle flap or skin graft closure.
Anesthesia for procedure on pubic bone or sacroiliac joint.
Analysis for antibody to Influenza virus.
Needle measurement and recording electrical activity of muscles including jitter blocking and/or fiber density using single electrode.
Destruction of vascular growth between retina and sclera.
Injection, verteporfin, 0.1 mg.
Injections of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Monitoring and recording of gastroesophageal reflux with pH electrode insertion including analysis and interpretation.
Transit and pressure measurement of stomach through colon with wireless capsule.
Removal of fluid-filled sac (bursa) or calcium deposit of pelvis.
Pelvis or hip joint procedure.
Cast supplies, long arm cast, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Home sleep test (hst) with type iv portable monitor, unattended; minimum of 3 channels.
Application of skin substitute (wound surface up to 100 sq cm) to trunk, arms, or legs.
Muscle flap wound repair of arm.
Removal of pressure sore and bone at sacrum.
Bleeding time.
Measurement of height of heart beats on EKG.
Infectious agent antibody detection by rapid antibody test, hiv-1 and/or hiv-2, screening.
Injection, enoxaparin sodium, 10 mg.
Needle measurement and recording of movement and/or feeling of arm or leg with interpretation and report.
Removal of infected skin, tissue or muscle of abdomen.
Drainage of abscess or blood collection at lower leg or ankle.
Partial removal of large bowel and reattachment to rectum.
CT scan guidance for and monitoring of tissue destruction.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution at multiple tumor locations.
Placement of spinal cord graft.
Negative pressure wound therapy, surface area greater than 50 square centimeters, per session.
Partial removal of external female genitals.
Removal or scraping of bone cyst or growth of toes.
Dilation of the bladder using an endoscope under general or spinal anesthesia.
Foot or toe procedure.
Injection, tbo-filgrastim, 1 microgram.
Implantation of cochlear device.
Strapping of elbow or wrist.
Control of nose bleed and insertion of packing.
Removal of catheter in artery or vein including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Development testing, with interpretation and report, per standardized instrument form.
Repair of ruptured Achilles tendon.
Repair of dislocating lower leg tendons.
Incision of tissues of muscle compartment of foot and/or toe.
Release of nerve between tissue and bone of foot.
Removal or scraping of bone cyst or growth of ankle bone with graft from hip or other bone.
Repair of foot tendon.
Creation of web space between toes.
Incision to repair heel bone.
Fusion of multiple foot joints.
Release of unspecified nerve.
Removal of growth of skin nerve.
Demonstration, prior to initiation of home inr monitoring, for patient with either mechanical heart valve(s), chronic atrial fibrillation, or venous thromboembolism who meets medicare coverage criteria, under the direction of a physician; includes: face-to.
Removal of abdominal cavity catheter.
Detection test for Strep (Streptococcus, group B).
X-ray of skull, complete, minimum of 4 views.
Placement of electrical bone healing device.
Injection of bone cement into body of middle or lower spine bone accessed through the skin using imaging guidance.
Reprogramming of programmable brain and spinal fluid shunt.
Drug infusion during cardiac catheterization.
Drug infusion or exercise for heart stimulation during diagnostic study.
Examination of small bowel using an endoscope.
Moderate sedation services by physician not performing a procedure, patient 5 years of age or older, first 30 minutes.
Mechanical separation of white blood cells and platelets from blood.
Insertion of catheter into vein with collection of blood sample.
Implantation of muscular tissue neurostimulator electrodes, accessed through the skin.
Application of cast, shoulder to hand (long arm).
Removal of vena cava filter by endovascular approach, including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Dialysis training, patient helper, completed course.
CT scan of face with contrast.
Repair of paraesophageal hernia.
Blood glucose (sugar) level after receiving dose of glucose.
Control of bleeding in small bowel using an endoscope.
Screening test for pathogenic organisms with colony count.
Application of low energy heat (infrared) to 1 or more areas.
Liver procedure using an endoscope.
Reconstruction of lower eyelid by transfer of eyelid tissue from opposite eyelid.
Reconstruction of upper eyelid by transfer of eyelid tissue from opposite eyelid.
Analysis for antibody to virus.
Nuclear medicine study heart muscle at rest or stress single study.
Diagnostic examination of anus with magnification and chemical agent enhancement using an endoscope.
Biopsies of anus with magnification and chemical agent enhancement using an endoscope.
Destruction of anal growths using electric current.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of upper spinal canal.
Gene analysis (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily D, polypeptide 6) common variants.
Creatine measurement.
Estrogen analysis.
Specific gravity (liquid weight) measurement.
Qualitative or semiquantitative detection test for helicobacter pylori in stool, multiple-step method.
Iliac and/or femoral artery angiography, non-selective, bilateral or ipsilateral to catheter insertion, performed at the same time as cardiac catheterization and/or coronary angiography, includes positioning or placement of the catheter in the distal aorta.
Removal (less than 1.5 centimeters) muscle growth of foot or toe.
Removal of foreign body of foot tissue.
Cystourethroscopy, with insertion of transprostatic implant; 4 or more implants.
Anesthesia for procedure on major abdominal blood vessels.
Transplantation of patient's bone marrow or blood-derived stem cells.
Behavioral and qualitative analysis of voice and resonance.
Crushing, fragmenting, and removal of bladder stones, complicated or larger than 2.5 centimeters.
Removal of fluid accumulation in one testicle and sperm reservoir.
Examination of external female genitals using an endoscope.
Creation of sling around bladder canal (urethra) to control leakage using an endoscope.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of dilation of kidney opening, urinary ducts (ureters) or bladder duct (urethra).
Open treatment of broken of lower forearm or growth plate separation with insertion of hardware of 2 fragments.
Lipoprotein measurement.
Removal of electrodes from right heart.
MRI of heart before and after contrast with stress imaging.
Creation of flap graft to nose, forehead, temple, or scalp.
Repositioning of breast on chest.
Ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration or biopsy of esophagus using an endoscope.
Fusion of middle or lower spine bones with removal of disc, lateral approach.
Removal of lower spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves, lateral extracavitary approach.
Removal of middle or lower spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves, lateral extracavitary approach.
Removal or revision of neurostimulator pulse generator or receiver.
Amino acid analysis.
T cells count, total.
Analysis for antibody to Toxoplasma (parasite).
Vaccine for Hepatitis A injection into muscle, adult dosage.
Removal of kidney from living donor using an endoscope.
Control of bleeding beyond second portion of small bowel using an endoscope.
Injection, micafungin sodium, 1 mg.
Bowel procedure using an endoscope.
Repair of rectal prolapse with partial removal of lower large bowel using an endoscope.
Drainage of anal abscess.
Anesthesia for closed needle biopsy of lung.
MRI scan of chest.
MRI scan of chest before and after contrast.
Insertion of needles and skin electrodes for measurement and recording of stimulated sites on the trunk or head.
Continuous monitoring of nervous system during operation, each 15 minutes.
Gene analysis (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 19) common variants.
Anesthesia for procedure in chest.
Imaging of organ.
Infectious agent detection by nucleic acid (dna or rna); human papillomavirus (hpv), high-risk types (eg, 16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 68) for cervical cancer screening, must be performed in addition to pap test.
Cast supplies, long arm splint, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Insertion of eye fluid drainage tube.
Removal of scar tissue in eye.
Removal of implanted lens in eye.
Insertion of lens prosthesis.
Removal of (over 1 centimeter) growth of sclera.
Injection, bevacizumab, 0.25 mg.
G6PD (enzyme) screening test.
Analysis for antibody to mumps virus.
Analysis for antibody to Rubella (German measles virus).
Analysis for antibody to Rubeola (measles virus).
Infectious agent antibody detection by enzyme immunoassay (eia) technique, hiv-1 and/or hiv-2, screening.
Stomach emptying and small bowel transit study.
Removal of entire shoulder joint lining using an endoscope.
Hearing test for children.
Release of major nerve of arm or leg, open procedure.
X-ray of chest, 2 views, front and side with fluoroscopy.
Removal of bone at base of toe.
X-ray of bones of nose, minimum of 3 views.
Gene analysis (v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene) variants in codons 12 and 13.
Glaucoma screening for high risk patients furnished by an optometrist or ophthalmologist.
Incision of vein for insertion of needle or catheter, patient age 1 or over.
Blood pH level.
Suture repair of turning-inward eyelid defect.
Dilation with insertion of device or stent to improve eye fluid flow.
Balloon dilation of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Injection, ampicillin sodium/sulbactam sodium, per 1.5 gm.
Fat stain of stool, urine, or respiratory secretions.
Repositioning of sliding groin hernia.
Injections of local anesthetic for pain control and abdominal wall analgesia on one side.
Scraping of skin of face.
Urine potassium level.
Injection of veins in rectum.
Incision of engorged external hemorrhoid.
Removal of dead or infected ankle joint tissue using an endoscope.
Needle biopsy of breast.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of placement of blood vessel prosthesis procedure.
Removal of bunion at fifth toe joint.
Insertion of needles or catheters into prostate for radiation therapy.
Abdominal removal of uterus and cervix.
Repair of blood vessel of leg.
Removal of prostate gland and surrounding lymph nodes on both sides of the pelvis through abdominal incision.
Incision and repair of bony defect of cheek bone with repositioning of bony segment.
Injection, fluphenazine decanoate, up to 25 mg.
Anesthesia for tying procedure on major blood vessels of neck.
Tying incision and/or removal of varicose vein clusters of leg.
Brachytherapy source, stranded, palladium-103, per source.
Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, palladium-103, per source.
Irrigation of abdominal cavity.
Removal of spermatic cord growth.
Transplant of both lungs.
Implantation of brain neurostimulator electrodes microelectrode recording.
Collagen cross links test, (urine test to evaluate bone health).
Change of tube or stent in urinary duct (ureter).
Removal of skin and bone.
Repair of separation of wound closure.
Anesthesia for closed procedure on knee joint.
Anesthesia for procedure on veins of lower leg.
Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single treatment area, use of multiple blocks: 6-10 mev.
Excision of skull base for exploration or release of cranial nerves.
Anesthesia for repair or removal of vagina and urinary procedure.
Lengthening of tendon of upper arm or elbow.
Partial removal of liver tissue.
Injection of anesthetic agent, trigeminal nerve bundle.
Joint procedure using an endoscope.
Histrelin implant (vantas), 50 mg.
Removal of sutures under anesthesia by other surgeon.
Examination of nasal passages and sinus using an endoscope via sinus puncture.
Partial removal of thyroid lobe on one side of the neck.
Removal or re-exploration of parathyroid glands.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution at tumor location.
Injection procedure for X-ray imaging of the lymphatic system.
Closed treatment of fracture hand bone.
Biopsy of vaginal mucous membrane.
Insertion of catheter into artery or vein for drug infusion for blood clot including radiological supervision and interpretation.
MRA scan of head blood vessels with contrast.
Imaging of kidney.
Removal of lung lining for lung expansion.
Placement of drainage catheter of biliary duct, accessed through the skin with imaging including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Incision of spine to correct deformity at middle spinal column.
Fusion of sacroiliac joint obtaining bone graft open procedure.
Partial removal of pancreas, bile duct and small bowel with connection of pancreas to small bowel.
Repair of trapped groin hernia.
Measurement and recording of brain wave (EEG) activity, overnight.
Proton treatment delivery, intermediate.
Tendon graft.
Injection, telavancin, 10 mg.
Plastic surgery to reconstruct breast.
Chemical receptor analysis.
Fragmenting, aspiration, and removal of lens material.
Repair of hernia using an endoscope.
Blood vessel procedure.
Home sleep study test (hst) with type ii portable monitor, unattended; minimum of 7 channels: eeg, eog, emg, ecg/heart rate, airflow, respiratory effort and oxygen saturation.
Onc breast risk score.
Gene analysis (v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1).
Gene analysis (ccaat/enhancer binding protein [c/ebp], alpha) full gene sequence.
Gene analysis (epidermal growth factor receptor), common variants.
Gene analysis (hemochromatosis) common variants.
Gene rearrangement analysis (immunoglobulin heavy chain locus) to detect abnormal clonal population amplified methodology.
Gene rearrangement analysis (immunoglobulin kappa light chain locus) to detect abnormal clonal population.
Gene analysis (Janus kinase 2) variant.
Gene analysis (v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog), targeted sequence.
Gene analysis (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog), additional variants.
Gene analysis (nucleophosmin) exon 12 variants.
Gene analysis ((platelet-derived growth factor receptor, alpha polypeptide) targeted sequence.
Translocation analysis (PML-RARA regulated adaptor molecule 1) common breakpoint.
Gene analysis (T cell antigen receptor beta) amplification methodology.
Gene rearrangement analysis detection abnormal clonal population (T cell antigen receptor gamma).
Molecular pathology procedure level 4.
Molecular pathology procedure.
Copper level.
Protein C antigen (clotting inhibitor) measurement.
Protein S (clotting inhibitor) measurement.
Fibrinogen (factor 1) activity measurement.
White blood cell alkaline phosphatase (enzyme) measurement with cell count.
Blood viscosity measurement.
Red blood cell antibody detection test.
Tissue culture to identify white blood cell disorders.
Tissue culture for tumor disorders of bone marrow and blood cells.
Chromosome analysis for genetic defects.
DNA testing for genetic defects.
Genetic testing.
Removal of tissue at thigh or knee region, open procedure.
Release of ligaments of knee joint, open procedure.
Incision of back portion of knee joint capsule.
Injection for X-ray imaging of right upper or lower heart.
High osmolar contrast material, up to 149 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
CT scan.
Noc drugs, other than inhalation drugs, administered through dme.
Repair of valve flaps between left heart chambers on heart-lung machine.
Repair of hole between upper heart chambers on heart-lung machine.
Ultrasound of brain.
Removal of nail with amputation of fingertip.
Preparation and provision of single-dose vials of allergen antigens for allergy immunotherapy.
Imaging of bone marrow whole body.
Removal of fluid from chest cavity with insertion of indwelling catheter, accessed through the skin.
Suture suspension of bladder canal (urethra) to control leakage using an endoscope.
Removal of lymph nodes at groin and pelvis.
Measurement of exhaled carbon dioxide gas.
Temporal bone implantation of cochlear stimulating system, accessed through the skin.
Analysis and programming of inner ear (cochlear) implant, patient age 7 years or older.
Androstenedione (hormone) level.
Phosphatase, prostatic (prostate enzyme) level.
Injection of anesthetic agent, facial nerve.
Radiation therapy delivery, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) for cranial growths, per session.
Lymphedema assessment for extracellular fluid analysis.
Quantitation of therapeutic drug.
Proton treatment delivery, simple with compensation.
Proton treatment delivery, complex.
Ear, nose, or throat procedure.
Paramedic intercept (pi), rural area, transport furnished by a volunteer ambulance company which is prohibited by state law from billing third party payers.
MRI scan of bone marrow.
Hyaluronan or derivative, gel-syn, for intra-articular injection, 0.1 mg.
Volatile chemical measurement.
Removal of uterus, cervix, and lymph nodes on both sides of pelvis and aortic lymph node biopsy using an endoscope.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) hormone level.
Manual white blood cell count and evaluation.
Red blood cell sickling measurement.
Analysis for antibody to HIV -1 virus.
Primidone level.
Urine chloride level.
Detection test for digestive tract pathogen.
Injection, ceftolozane 50 mg and tazobactam 25 mg.
Grafix core, per square centimeter.
Lamotrigine level.
Oxcarbazepine level.
Sirolimus level.
Topiramate level.
Translocation analysis (BCR/ABL1) minor breakpoint.
Translocation analysis (BCR/ABL1) major breakpoint.
HLA class I typing, low resolution one antigen equivalent.
Alpha-1-antitrypsin (protein) blood test.
Arsenic level.
Infrared analysis of stone.
Catecholamines (organic nitrogen) level.
Citrate level.
Estriol (hormone) level.
Estrone (hormone) level.
Gastrin (GI tract hormone) level.
G6PD (enzyme) level.
Human growth hormone level.
Heavy metal level.
Hydroxyindolacetic acid (product of metabolism) level.
Lead level.
Mercury level.
Metanephrines level.
Urine osmolality (concentration) measurement.
Oxalate level.
Stool calprotectin (protein) level.
Urine phosphate level.
Pregnenolone (reproductive hormone) level.
Total protein level, body fluid.
Vitamin B-6 level.
Serotonin (hormone) level.
Thyroid stimulating immune globulins (thyroid related protein) level.
Vitamin E level.
Vitamin A level.
Clotting factor VIII (AHG) measurement.
Antithrombin III antigen (clotting inhibitor) activity.
White blood cell enzyme activity measurement.
Analysis for detection of tumor marker.
Inhibin A (reproductive organ hormone) measurement.
Intrinsic factor (stomach protein) antibody measurement.
White blood cell antigen measurement.
Analysis for antibody to aspergillus (fungus).
Analysis for antibody to Bartonella (bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Candida (yeast).
Analysis for antibody to Chlamydia (bacteria).
Analysis for antibody (IgM) to Chlamydia (bacteria).
Analysis for antibody (IgM) to Cytomegalovirus (CMV).
Analysis for antibody to fungus.
Analysis for antibody to protozoa (parasite).
Assessment of antibodies to Class I and Class II human leukocyte antigens (HLA) antigens.
Culture for identification of yeast.
Tissue preparation for culture.
Virus isolation.
Detection test for cytomegalovirus, quantification.
Detection test for multiple types of respiratory virus.
Infectious agent drug susceptibility analysis.
Analysis test for HIV-1 virus.
Hiv antigen/antibody, combination assay, screening.
Screening papanicolaou smear, cervical or vaginal, up to three smears, by technician under physician supervision.
Screening papanicolaou smear, cervical or vaginal, up to three smears, requiring interpretation by physician.
Analysis of nasal resistance during breathing.
Mechanical chest wall manipulation for improvement in lung function.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerves, muscles, tendons, fascia, and/or bursae of knee.
Unlisted ambulance service.
Therapeutic hot and cold baths to 1 or more areas, each 15 minutes.
Esophagus procedure using an endoscope.
Insertion of feeding tube or catheter into upper small bowel.
Needle measurement and recording of electrical activity of middle spine muscles.
Analysis for antibody to Campylobacter (intestinal bacteria).
Manual muscle testing of hand.
Face-to-face educational services related to the care of chronic kidney disease; individual, per session, per one hour.
Repair of heart valve between right chambers with insertion of prosthetic valve ring.
Red blood cell count, automated test.
Bacterial culture and colony count for anaerobic bacteria.
Pulmonary rehabilitation, including exercise (includes monitoring), one hour, per session, up to two sessions per day.
Removal or revision of spinal neurostimulator electrodes, accessed through the skin.
Injection, amikacin sulfate, 100 mg.
Injection to cause blood clot in a diseased or bulging vessel of arm or leg, accessed through the skin.
Aspiration or injection of cerebrospinal fluid shunt tubing or reservoir.
Anesthesia for removal of urinary bladder.
Repair of defect of aorta in chest.
Biopsy of lung using an endoscope.
Removal of kidney drainage tube (ureter) using fluoroscopic guidance.
Voice box procedure.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on one side of voice box accessed through the skin.
Removal of eyeball with implant attached to muscles.
Removal of rectal muscle growth.
Destruction of multiple vaginal growths.
Repair or nonroutine service for durable medical equipment other than oxygen equipment requiring the skill of a technician, labor component, per 15 minutes.
Creation of muscle and blood vessel skin graft.
Detection test for adenovirus.
Fixation of rectum to sacrum, perineal approach.
Removal and tying 2 or more hemorrhoid group.
Harvest of an arm artery segment.
Light compression bandage, elastic, knitted/woven, width greater than or equal to three inches and less than five inches, per yard.
Cast supplies, gauntlet cast (includes lower forearm and hand), adult (11 years +), plaster.
Injection, ciprofloxacin for intravenous infusion, 200 mg.
Face-to-face educational services related to the care of chronic kidney disease; group, per session, per one hour.
Health and behavior intervention, family and patient each 15 minutes.
Hydroxyprogesterone, 17-D (synthetic hormone) level.
Reattachment of nasal and eye socket ligament.
Dermal filler injection(s) for the treatment of facial lipodystrophy syndrome (lds) (e.g., as a result of highly active antiretroviral therapy).
Injection, sculptra, 0.5 mg.
Removal of growth of mouth with plastic repair.
Partial removal of vaginal wall.
Radioactive material therapy into vein.
Radium ra-223 dichloride, therapeutic, per microcurie.
Biopsy of tissue of back or flank.
Aspiration of blood from eye.
Needle stereotactic and image-guided biopsy of prostate gland.
Ultrasound guidance for tissue destruction.
Microscopic examination for white blood cells.
Injection of air or liquid into eye.
HLA class I typing low resolution one locus.
Detection test for Staphylococcus aureus (bacteria).
Spine procedure.
Creation of permanent eyelid margin scarring.
Transplantation of fetal sac tissue to cornea.
Removal of blood clot and portion of artery of upper thigh.
Mechanical removal of obstructive material from central venous catheter.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of removal of obstructive material in catheter procedure.
Community or work reintegration training, each 15 minutes.
Incision of tear duct using an endoscope.
Incision of corner of eye at eyelids.
Injection of bone cement into body of middle or lower spine accessed through the skin using imaging guidance.
Removal and replacement of stent in kidney and urinary duct (ureter) using fluoroscopic guidance including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Destruction of growths in one kidney, accessed through the skin.
Incision to implant peripheral nerve neurostimulator electrodes.
Infusion of heart artery to dissolve blood clot with X-ray imaging.
Release of scar tissue at urinary duct (ureter).
Anesthesia for procedure on veins of upper leg.
Injection of vocal cords using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Biopsy of voice box using a flexible endoscope.
Injection, penicillin g procaine, aqueous, up to 600,000 units.
Insertion of needles or catheters into muscle and/or tissue for radiation therapy.
Removal of scarring of lining of eyelid due to infection.
Destruction of trigeminal (facial) nerve branch.
Destruction of extensive growths of external female genitals.
Implantable neurostimulator, pulse generator, any type.
Removal and replacement of single lead permanent pacemaker pulse generator.
Gabapentin level.
Mycophenolate (mycophenolic acid) level.
Tobramycin (antibiotic) level.
Zonisamide level.
HLA class I typing high resolution one allele or allele group.
Molecular pathology procedure level 1.
Molecular pathology procedure level 2.
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) analysis.
Ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) level, blood.
Analysis using chemiluminescent technique (light and chemical )reaction.
Chromium level to test for poisoning or deficiency.
Pancreatic elastase (enzyme) measurement.
Stool fat measurement.
Glutathione (protein) level.
Myelin basic protein (nerve protein) level, spinal fluid.
Measurement of immune substance (oligoclonal bands).
Oncoprotein (cancer related gene) measurement.
Selenium (vitamin) level.
Carbohydrate analysis.
Urine sulfate (acid) level.
Urine vanillylmandelic acid.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (intestinal hormone) level.
ADH (antidiuretic hormone) level.
Vitamin measurement.
Vitamin K level.
Clotting factor VII (proconvertin, stable factor).
Clotting factor VIII (VW factor) measurement.
Clotting factor VIII (VW factor) antigen.
Clotting factor VIII (von Willebrand factor) measurement.
Antithrombin III antigen (clotting inhibitor) level.
Protein C, (clotting inhibitor) activity.
Protein S (clotting inhibitor) level.
Activated protein resistance assay.
Plasminogen activator (fibrinolytic factor) measurement.
Phospholipid test.
Hematology and coagulation procedures.
Measurement of antibody (IgG) to allergic substance.
Measurement of cold agglutinin (protein) to detect infection or disease.
Immunologic analysis technique.
Insulin antibody measurement.
Islet cell (pancreas) antibody measurement.
Total cell count for B cells (white blood cells).
Total cell count for natural killer cells (white blood cell).
Analysis for antibody bacteria.
Analysis for antibody to blastomyces (fungus).
Analysis for antibody bordetella (respiratory bacteria).
Confirmation test for antibody to Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Diphtheria (bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to helminth (intestinal worm).
Analysis for antibody to histoplasma (fungus).
Analysis for antibody to HIV-2 virus.
Analysis for antibody to tetanus bacteria (Clostridium tetanus).
Analysis for antibody (IgM) to Toxoplasma (parasite).
Bacterial culture for anaerobic isolates.
Identification of organisms by genetic analysis.
Macroscopic examination (visual inspection) of parasite.
Detection test for Rotavirus.
Analysis test for hepatitis b virus.
Injection or infusion into a vein or artery for therapy, prevention, or diagnosis.
Diagnostic examination of gallbladder and pancreatic, liver, and bile ducts using an endoscope.
Destruction of soft tissue of nasal passages.
Removal of cranial tongs or halo (stabilization device for skull).
Aluminum level.
Cadmium level.
Manganese (heavy metal) level.
Nickel level.
Urine analysis for thromboxane (lipid).
Fibrinogen (factor 1) antigen detection.
Confirmation test for Hepatitis C antibody.
Injection, decitabine, 1 mg.
Vincristine sulfate, 1 mg.
Nuclear medicine study heart muscle with metabolic evaluation.
Nuclear medicine imaging whole body.
Incision of tissues of hip or thigh.
Reconstruction of hip socket and repair of thigh bone using an endoscope.
Injection, non-radioactive, non-contrast, visualization adjunct (e.g., methylene blue, isosulfan blue), 1 mg.
Destruction of 1 or more growths in liver, accessed through the skin.
Macroscopic examination (visual inspection) of insect.
Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment area,single port or parallel opposed ports, simple blocks or no blocks: 6-10 mev.
Injection, vedolizumab, 1 mg.
Injection, testosterone enanthate, 1 mg.
Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/woven, sterile, width greater than or equal to three inches and less than five inches, per yard.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked organ artery, accessed through the skin.
Injection, belimumab, 10 mg.
Closed treatment of fracture of upper arm bone at shoulder joint.
Open treatment of broken upper arm bone at shoulder joint.
Application of vein wound compression system thigh and lower leg.
Miscellaneous supply or accessory for use with an implanted ventricular assist device.
Technetium tc-99m pentetate, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 25 millicuries.
Replacement of left lower heart chamber valve using tissue valve on heart-lung machine.
Removal of blood clot in heart artery, accessed through the skin.
Biopsy of nerve.
Injection, hyaluronidase, ovine, preservative free, per 1 usp unit (up to 999 usp units).
Removal of drug delivery implant from tissue.
Incision of deep thigh tissue for graft.
Repair of bony defect of forehead and eye bones.
Removal of cheek bone and skull to approach brain lesion.
Removal of lesion at skull base.
Fetal non-stress test.
Injection, ampicillin sodium, 500 mg.
Relocation of tendon of forearm and/or wrist with grafts.
Removal of lens material.
Destruction of small bowel polyps or growths using an endoscope.
Repair of bladder canal (urethra) and/or lower bladder for incontinence.
Injection, paliperidone palmitate extended release, 1 mg.
Creation of opening or partial removal of sac that covers the heart.
Repair through the vagina of vaginal wall defect.
Removal of kidney, lymph nodes, and/or blood clot from major vein (vena cava) with partial removal of urinary duct (ureter), open procedure.
Partial removal of kidney.
Biopsy of blood vessel via catheter.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of liver vein with assessment of blood flow.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of biopsy procedure.
Gene analysis (cancer).
Preparation of specimen using laser.
Removal and replacement of multiple lead permanent pacemaker pulse generator.
Insertion of radiation therapy markers into lung airways using an endoscope.
Incision of bladder with insertion of catheter or stent in urinary duct (ureter).
Incision of the bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope, male.
Partial removal of bone with release of upper spinal cord or spinal nerves.
Removal of tissue lining of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Small bowel procedure.
Removal of lower spine sympathetic nerves.
Removal of finger or toe sympathetic nerve.
Incision of abscess, cyst, or blood accumulation in mouth.
Lactate dehydrogenase (enzyme) measurement.
Treatment of windpipe cartilage fracture or dilation of windpipe cartilage using an endoscope.
Removal of growth in lung airways using an endoscope.
Generator, neurostimulator (implantable), high frequency, with rechargeable battery and charging system.
CT scan of lower spine before and after contrast.
Management of radiation therapy.
Injection, cosyntropin (cortrosyn), 0.25 mg.
Biopsy of voice box using an endoscope.
Partial removal of salivary gland growth with release of facial nerve.
Removal of total salivary gland growth or salivary gland with release of facial nerve.
Group treatment of speech, language, voice, communication, and/or hearing processing disorder.
Injection, medroxyprogesterone acetate, 1 mg.
Face-to-face behavioral counseling for obesity, group (2-10), 30 minutes.
Removal of vocal cord growths with tissue flap repair using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Multiple punctures of cornea.
Laser removal of scar tissue in eye.
Cast supplies, short arm splint, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Surgical exposure of prostate gland for radiation therapy.
Drainage or removal of foreign body of wrist joint.
Lengthening or shortening of tendon of forearm and/or wrist.
Biopsy of anus using an endoscope.
Gene analysis (adenomatous polyposis coli), full gene sequence.
Gene analysis (mutS homolog 2, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 1) full sequence analysis.
Gene analysis (mutS homolog 6 [E coli]) full sequence analysis.
Gene analysis (postmeiotic segregation increased 2 [S cerevisiae]) full sequence analysis.
Blood test analysis for helicobacter pylori.
Analysis for antibody to Ehrlichia (bacteria transmitted by ticks).
Detection test for HIV-1.
Detection test for helicobacter pylori (GI tract bacteria).
Ketone bodies analysis.
Assessment of simultaneous but different hearing tones in same ear.
Gene analysis (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 9) common variants.
Injection, hyaluronidase, recombinant, 1 usp unit.
Injection by continuous infusion of anesthetic agent, sciatic nerve.
Cast supplies, for unlisted types and materials of casts.
Repair of knee cap.
Diagnostic examination of knee using an endoscope.
Harvest of patient bone marrow for transplantation.
Implantation of brain neurostimulator electrodes with microelectrode recording.
Removal of growth of lymph node.
Release of foot tendon.
Goserelin acetate implant, per 3.6 mg.
Breast procedure.
Removal of thymus gland through neck incision.
Health and behavior re-assessment each 15 minutes.
Vaccine for Hepatitis B (4 dose schedule) for injection into muscle, dialysis or immunosuppressed patient.
Implantation or replacement of spinal canal drug infusion device beneath skin.
Incisional removal of eyelashes.
Lengthening of hamstring tendon.
Biopsy of bone using needle or trocar.
Collection of stem cells for transplantation.
Removal of biliary drainage catheter, accessed through the skin using imaging guidance and radiological supervision and interpretation.
Repair through abdomen of vaginal wall defect, open procedure.
Anesthesia for removal of urinary bladder stone.
Anesthesia for procedure on male genitalia.
MRI scan of pelvis with contrast.
MRI of heart.
Physical therapy treatment to 1 or more areas, Hubbard tank, each 15 minutes.
Gene analysis (calreticulin), common variants.
Gene rearrangement analysis (immunoglobulin heavy chain locus), variable region somatic mutation analysis.
Imaging procedure.
Replacement of tissue expander with permanent prosthesis.
Infusion, albumin (human), 25%, 20 ml.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of removal of obstructive material from large vein catheter procedure.
Imaging of urinary tract using infusion technique with kidney section filming.
Imaging for bone age assessment.
Repair of brain covering by tissue or synthetic graft.
Stereotactic biopsy, aspiration, or excision of brain lesion using CT and/or MRI guidance.
General repair of voice box.
Dilation of the bladder including local anesthetic using an endoscope.
Partial removal of shoulder joint lining using an endoscope.
Pelvic examination under anesthesia.
Thrombin time, fibrinogen screening test.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of artery of breast.
Incision of tissue of forearm and/or wrist muscle compartment.
Cast supplies, long arm cast, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Partial removal of finger bone.
Strapping of hand or finger.
Injection of drug into nasal air passages.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of urinary tract.
Removal of foreign body in lung airways using an endoscope.
MRI scan of upper spinal canal with contrast.
MRI scan of middle spinal canal with contrast.
Injection, lanreotide, 1 mg.
Incision to lengthen foot tendons, open procedure.
Insertion of catheter into right heart or main pulmonary (lung) artery.
Removal or biopsy of lower spine bone growth.
Injection for X-ray imaging of ankle.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of ankle joint.
Repair of anal muscle for incontinence or prolapse, adult.
Injection, dmso, dimethyl sulfoxide, 50%, 50 ml.
Recording of gastrointestinal electrical activity of stomach.
Destruction of prostate gland using ultrasound guidance.
Venography for blood clot in veins, both legs or arms.
Removal of (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin of neck or front of chest.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin of back or flank.
Removal of growth of skin nerve or nerve lining.
High dose brachytherapy through skin surface, 1 channel or up to 2.0 cm.
Nuclear medicine study of radioactive material distribution of whole body, requiring 2 or more days imaging.
Release of nerve at sole of foot.
Destruction of skin growth (over 50.0 sq centimeters).
Injection, dalbavancin, 5mg.
Methotrexate sodium, 50 mg.
Anesthesia for procedure to create holes in skull including X-ray imaging.
Allergy testing with venoms into or within skin, immediate type reaction, including test interpretation and report.
Examination of the vagina and cervix using an endoscope.
Scraping of the cervix using an endoscope.
Incision of spine to correct deformity at middle or lower spinal column.
Repair of bulging of blood vessel (aneurysm) in brain.
Biopsy of fluid collection in one lung using an endoscope.
Technetium tc-99m macroaggregated albumin, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 10 millicuries.
Technetium tc-99m pentetate, diagnostic, aerosol, per study dose, up to 75 millicuries.
Radiopharmaceutical, diagnostic, for beta-amyloid positron emission tomography (pet) imaging, per study dose.
Removal of foreign material from skin, tissue, muscle, and bone at open fracture and/or dislocation.
Application of long leg splint (thigh to ankle or toes).
Injection, nalbuphine hydrochloride, per 10 mg.
Procalcitonin (hormone) level.
Removal of blood clot and portion of artery of upper arm.
Drainage of tendon of finger and/or palm.
Closed treatment of broken finger or thumb.
Light compression bandage, elastic, knitted/woven, width greater than or equal to five inches, per yard.
Imaging of liver and spleen with blood flow.
Destruction of liver growths using an endoscope.
Assessment of hearing loss using grammatically incorrect sentences.
Analysis for antibody (IgM) to West Nile virus.
Analysis for antibody to West Nile virus.
Insertion of tissue expander in breast.
Removal of capsule surrounding breast.
Nitrogen n-13 ammonia, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 40 millicuries.
Creation of stomach feeding tube using an endoscope.
Removal or crushing kidney stone (up to 2 centimeters) or insert kidney stent using an endoscope, accessed through the skin.
Exploration of neck artery.
Anesthesia for procedure on middle spine and spinal cord.
Amino acid level, multiple amino acids.
Measurement of substance using spectroscopy (light).
Carnitine level.
Carotene level.
Fatty acids measurement.
Histamine (immune system substance) level.
Organic acids level.
Protoporphyrin (metabolism substance) level.
Proinsulin (pancreatic hormone) level.
Vitamin B-2 (riboflavin) level.
Analysis for antibody to adenovirus (respiratory virus).
Analysis for antibody to Enterovirus (gastrointestinal virus).
Analysis for antibody to Rickettsia (bacteria).
Detection test for entamoeba histolytica dispar group (parasite).
Detection test for herpes virus-6.
Examination of stool for meat fibers.
HER-2 oncoprotein (cancer related gene) measurement.
Heart surgery procedure.
Nuclear medicine study limited area.
Biopsy of soft tissue of upper arm or elbow.
Biopsy of tissue of forearm and/or wrist.
Biopsy of thigh or knee region tissue.
Biopsy of soft tissue of leg or ankle.
Ultrasound of bone density measurement.
Application of long or short leg clubfoot cast.
Injection, sterile cefuroxime sodium, per 750 mg.
Evaluation of single or dual chamber pacing cardioverter-defibrillator with programming or reprogramming.
X-ray of voice box or throat.
Closed treatment of fracture of foot with manipulation.
Open treatment of broken foot bone.
Closed treatment of dislocated foot joint.
Closed treatment of dislocated foot bone.
Open treatment of dislocated foot bone.
MRI scan.
Open treatment of broken and/or dislocated upper spine bones.
Repair of vertical lip wound extending to over half of lip.
Insertion of brain fluid shunt catheter using an endoscope.
Replacement or revision of brain fluid drainage shunt valve or catheter.
Removal of tunneled catheter in lung lining.
Removal of foot bone spur.
Incision of tissue of front and/or lateral and rear muscle compartments of lower leg.
Removal of blood clot in artery.
Insertion of feeding tube (accessed beneath the skin) into small bowel using an endoscope.
Insertion of stents into artery in one leg, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Removal of foreign body, external eye, cornea.
Creation of openings in iris for eye fluid drainage using laser, 1 or more sessions.
Anesthesia for procedure on facial bones or skull.
Injection, cetuximab, 10 mg.
Manipulation of elbow under anesthesia.
Manipulation of wrist under anesthesia.
Manipulation of finger joint under anesthesia.
Tying incision and stripping leg veins.
Alcohol and/or substance (other than tobacco) abuse structured assessment (e.g., audit, dast), and intervention, greater than 30 minutes.
Examination of the vagina using an endoscope.
Procedure on abdomen using an endoscope.
Supply of injectable contrast material for use in echocardiography, per study.
Control of nosebleed and insertion of packing.
Injection of anesthetic agent, groin nerves.
Coordinated care fee, maintenance rate.
Injection for X-ray imaging of pulmonary (lung) artery from heart.
Abdominal ultrasound of pregnant uterus (greater or equal to 14 weeks 0 days) single or first fetus.
Ultrasound of pregnant uterus, 1 or more fetus(es).
Ultrasound of fetal brain artery.
Drainage of abscess or blood accumulation in pelvis or hip joint.
Coagulation or fibrinolysis (clot dissolving) function measurement with interpretation and written report, per day.
Catheter based closure of congenital heart defect with implant, accessed through the skin.
Incision of should joint capsule using an endoscope.
Insertion of stomach tube and aspirations of gastric contents.
Lengthening of multiple hamstring tendons in one leg.
X-ray of voice box and/or esophagus.
Brief face-to-face behavioral counseling for alcohol misuse, 15 minutes.
Removal of spine bone with severing of nerve roots.
Injection, naloxone hydrochloride, per 1 mg.
Transplantation of donor heart.
Removal of lower heart chamber assistive blood flow device.
Implantation of eye drug delivery system.
Thoracic targets delineation for stereotactic body radiation therapy.
Release of leg and/or ankle tendon.
Removal of bladder and lymph nodes on both sides of pelvis with transplantation of urinary ducts (ureters) to small or large bowel with creation of urinary opening.
Removal of prostate gland.
Removal of indwelling stent in urinary duct (ureter) including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Aspiration of fluid collection in testicle and sperm reservoir.
Culture for chlamydia.
Removal of wrist bone.
Insertion of catheters into main and accessory arteries of one kidney for imaging including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Splint supplies, miscellaneous (includes thermoplastics, strapping, fasteners, padding and other supplies).
Examination of chest using an endoscope with biopsy.
Drainage of abscess or blood accumulation at upper arm or elbow.
Removal of upper spine disc and release of spinal cord and/or nerves.
Refilling and maintenance of implantable spinal or brain drug delivery pump or reservoir.
Injection, fludarabine phosphate, 50 mg.
Release and/or relocation ulnar nerve at wrist.
Everolimus level.
Gene analysis (breast cancer 1 and 2) full sequence and duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (alpha globin 1 and alpha globin 2) common deletions or variant.
Gene analysis (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade A, alpha-1 antiproteinase, antitrypsin, member 1) common variants.
HLA class I typing low resolution.
HLA class II typing low resolution HLA-DRB1/3/4/5 and -DQB1.
HLA class II typing low resolution one locus.
HLA class II typing low resolution one antigen equivalent.
HLA class II typing high resolution one allele or allele group.
Molecular pathology procedure level 3.
Genetic profiling on oncology biopsy of ovarian lesions.
Carbohydrate deficient transferrin (protein) level.
Cryofibrinogen (protein) level.
Enzyme activity measurement.
Galectin-3 level.
Test for detecting genes associated with growth stimulation.
Stool lactoferrin (immune system protein) level.
Joint fluid diagnostic test.
Nucleotidase 5' (enzyme) level.
Urine porphobilinogen (metabolism substance) level.
Urine porphyrins (metabolism substance) measurement.
17-hydroxypregnenolone (hormone) level.
Carbohydrates analysis.
Transcortin (cortisol binding protein) level.
Chemistry procedures.
Clotting factor II prothrombin, measurement.
Clotting factor V (ACP or proaccelerin) measurement.
Clotting factor IX (PTC or Christmas) measurement.
Clotting factor X (Stuart-Prower) measurement.
Clotting factor XI (PTA) measurement.
Clotting factor XII (Hageman) measurement.
Coagulation function analysis.
Plasminogen (fibrinolytic factor) measurement.
Heparin assay.
Thromboplastin inhibition (circulating anticoagulant) measurement.
Analysis of female reproductive genetic marker.
Immune complex measurement.
Analysis of cell function and analysis for genetic marker.
Analysis for antibody to actinomyces (bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Brucella (bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Coxiella burnetii (Q fever bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Francisella tularensis (bacteria transmitted by rodents).
Analysis for antibody to Haemophilus influenza (respiratory bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Legionella (waterborne bacteria).
Identification of red blood cell antibodies.
Red blood cell antibody screening test.
Mycoplasma culture.
Tissue culture inoculation for virus isolation.
Tissue culture for virus isolation.
Detection test for aspergillus (fungus).
Detection test for entamoeba histolytica group (parasite).
Detection test for histoplasma capsulatum (parasite).
Detection Bartonella henselae and Bartonella quintana (bacteria).
Detection test for borrelia burgdorferi (bacteria).
Detection test for Cytomegalovirus (CMV).
Semen analysis for sperm presence.
Injection of allergenic extracts into skin with delayed reaction analysis.
Preparation of graft site of face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes.
Application of skin substitute (wound surface up to 100 sq cm) to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes.
Application of skin substitute (wound surface great than or equal to 100 sq cm) to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes (first 100 sq cm or 1% body area of infants and children).
Application of skin substitute (wound surface great than or equal to 100 sq cm) to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, eye region, genitals, hands, feet, and/or multiple fingers or toes.
Relocation of eye muscles to restore function.
Repair of wound (12.6 to 20.0 centimeters) of the scalp, underarms, trunk, arms, and/or legs.
Repair of wound (7.6 to 12.5 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, and/or mouth.
Injection of anesthetic agent, sympathetic nerve bundle.
Exploration of kidney.
Reconstruction of kidney.
Injection of urinary duct (ureter) for X-ray imaging.
Removal of nasal breathing passages using an endoscope.
Manipulation of shoulder joint under anesthesia.
CT scan of pelvis before and after contrast.
Percutaneous skeletal fixation of posterior pelvic bone fracture and/or dislocation, for fracture patterns which disrupt the pelvic ring, unilateral or bilateral, (includes ilium, sacroiliac joint and/or sacrum).
Invasive electrical stimulation to aid bone healing.
Coordinated care fee, risk adjusted maintenance.
Removal of (2 centimeters or greater) tissue growth beneath the skin of face and scalp.
Removal (3 centimeters or greater) tissue growth beneath the skin of back or flank.
Injection of anesthetic agent, of rib nerve.
Microscopic examination of esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Refilling and maintenance of implantable pump or reservoir for drug delivery.
Injection into artery for therapy, diagnosis, or prevention.
Injection, penicillin g benzathine and penicillin g procaine, 100,000 units.
Diaphragm procedure.
Repair of blood vessel of abdomen.
MRI guidance for destruction of tissue.
Preventive retinal detachment treatment by heat or freezing, 1 or more sessions.
Enlargement of breast.
Specimen analysis for blood.
Closed treatment of collar bone fracture.
Biopsy of rectum.
Placement of scalp electrodes for assessment and recording of responses from several areas of the nerve-brain hearing system, infant.
Drainage of abdominal abscess or infection, open procedure.
Injection, interferon, alfa-2b, recombinant, 1 million units.
Insertion of needle for infusion into bone.
Removal of lens material and portion of lens capsule.
Pancreas procedure.
Incision to straighten toe bones.
Removal of internal and external hemorrhoids.
Insertion of catheter into vein for drug infusion for blood clot including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Destruction of growths of esophagus using an endoscope.
Removal of nasal sinus.
Nuclear medicine study for thyroid cancer.
Anesthesia for open revision of total hip joint replacement.
Injection of anesthetic agent, pudendal (external genital) nerve.
Repair of detached retina by injection of air or gas.
Insertion of catheter into breast for radiation therapy concurrent with partial breast removal using imaging guidance.
Partial removal of tissue at sole of foot.
Self-adherent bandage, elastic, non-knitted/non-woven, width greater than or equal to three inches and less than five inches, per yard.
Repositioning of stomach feeding tube.
Heart and blood vessel procedure.
Assessment of two simultaneous words at different tones in same ear.
Removal of lymph nodes behind abdominal cavity.
Closed treatment of broken spine bones.
Repair of nasal or cheek bone with bone graft.
Repair of lower jaw bone with bone graft.
Transesophageal doppler measurement of cardiac output (including probe placement, image acquisition, and interpretation per course of treatment) for monitoring purposes.
Examination of blood vessel or graft using an endoscope.
Repair of dialysis access in arm.
Injection, cosyntropin, not otherwise specified, 0.25 mg.
Injection, hydralazine hcl, up to 20 mg.
Injection, protamine sulfate, per 10 mg.
Apligraf, per square centimeter.
Aspiration of fluid from sac that covers the heart.
Ultrasonic guidance for drainage of sac that covers the heart.
Repair of finger joint.
Impression and custom preparation of oral prosthesis for use during surgery.
Anesthesia for procedure on eye for removal of iris.
Insertion of posterior spinal instrumentation for spinal stabilization, 13 or more vertebral segments.
Injection, bivalirudin, 1 mg.
CT scan of leg before and after contrast injection.
Iodine i-131 sodium iodide capsule(s), therapeutic, per millicurie.
Repair of turning-outward eyelid defect.
Exploration of cavity behind eye, frontal or transconjunctival approach.
Insertion of probe into the tear duct under anesthesia.
Infusion, albumin (human), 5%, 250 ml.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of brain and spinal cord with contrast.
Insertion of devices for radiation therapy guidance in abdominal cavity, open procedure.
Hypertonic saline solution, 1 ml.
Injection, phytonadione (vitamin k), per 1 mg.
Androsterone (hormone) level.
Deoxycortisol, 11 (hormone) level.
Etiocholanolone (testosterone byproduct) level.
Very long chain fatty acids level.
Heavy metal screening test.
Homovanillic acid (organic acid) level.
Hydroxycorticosteroids, 17 (adrenal gland hormone) level.
Ketosteroids, 17 (hormone) measurement.
Pregnanediol (reproductive hormone) level.
Pregnanetriol (reproductive hormone) level.
Pyruvate (organic acid) level.
Manipulation of hip joint under general anesthesia.
Removal of knee cap.
Closed treatment of broken hand or finger.
Removal of foreskin, patient older than 28 days of age.
Brachytherapy source, stranded, iodine-125, per source.
Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, iodine-125, per source.
Analysis of antibody (IgE) to allergic substance.
Anesthesia for procedure to repair abdominal hernia.
Creation of eye fluid drainage tract with removal of sclera and iris.
Preparation and provision of single stinging insect venom for allergen immunotherapy.
Molecular pathology procedure level 7.
Imaging of liver blood flow.
Placement of skin electrodes for measurement and recording of stimulated sites of the arms.
Oral removal of lower jaw bone growth or cyst.
Oral removal of upper jaw bone growth or cyst.
X-ray of teeth, less than full mouth.
Injection, terbutaline sulfate, up to 1 mg.
HLA class II typing high resolution one locus.
Removal or scraping of upper jaw or cheek bone growth or cyst.
Removal and/or scraping of lower jaw bone growth or cyst.
Repair of abnormal drainage tract between two nasal sinuses.
Injection, dimenhydrinate, up to 50 mg.
Injection, ziconotide, 1 microgram.
Revision or removal of peripheral neurostimulator electrode array.
Revision or removal of peripheral nerve or gastric neurostimulator generator.
Detection test for Chlamydia pneumoniae.
Repair of blood vessel of leg with graft.
Removal of lower jaw bone.
Removal of facial bones.
Impression and custom preparation of temporary oral prosthesis.
Excision of abnormal blood vessel at skull base or upper spine bones.
Injection, immune globulin (bivigam), 500 mg.
Injection, meropenem, 100 mg.
Injection, oritavancin, 10 mg.
Incision of tissue of muscle compartments of one side of pelvis.
Biopsy of soft tissue of neck or chest.
Injection, thyrotropin alpha, 0.9 mg, provided in 1.1 mg vial.
Fine needle aspiration of orbital contents.
Removal of sutures between upper and lower eyelids.
Ultrasound of eye disease or growth.
Incisional repair of twisted or herniated small bowel.
Detection test for Vancomycin resistance strep (VRE).
Repair of rectal prolapse.
Repair of multiple toe tendons, accessed through the skin.
Blood smear for iron.
Release of small bowel scar tissue using an endoscope.
Fusion of ankle joint, open procedure.
Mechanical separation of red blood cells from blood.
Removal or destruction of (5 centimeters or less) abdominal cavity growths, cysts, or abnormal tissue, open procedure.
Diagnostic CT scan of large bowel with contrast dye.
Diagnostic examination of lungs, heart sac, mid-chest cavity, or lung lining using an endoscope.
Balloon dilation of large bowel using an endoscope.
MRI scan of one breast with contrast.
Injection, fluocinolone acetonide, intravitreal implant, 0.01 mg.
Insertion of abdominal cavity catheter for drainage or dialysis, open procedure.
Anesthesia for heart or heart-lung transplant.
Detection test for multiple types of influenza virus.
Examination and biopsy of external female genitals using an endoscope.
Insertion of catheter or tube in esophagus stomach and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Repair of multiple hamstring tendons, open procedure.
Repair of leg tendon.
Removal or shaving of knee joint cartilage using an endoscope.
Removal of loose or foreign body of shoulder using an endoscope.
Aspiration and/or injection of thyroid cyst.
Repair of blood vessel of arm.
Insertion of needle or catheter into the brachial (arm) artery.
Anesthesia for diagnostic examination of knee joint using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for closed procedure on upper arm bone and shoulder joint.
MRI scan of jaw joints.
Closed treatment of fracture of shin bone.
Image-guided robotic linear accelerator-based stereotactic radiosurgery, delivery including collimator changes and custom plugging, fractionated treatment, all lesions, per session, second through fifth sessions, maximum five sessions per course of treatme.
Image-guided robotic linear accelerator-based stereotactic radiosurgery, complete course of therapy in one session or first session of fractionated treatment.
Removal or shaving of hip joint socket cartilage using an endoscope.
Injection, pertuzumab, 1 mg.
Insertion of devices in chest cavity for radiation therapy guidance, accessed through the skin.
Xenon xe-133 gas, diagnostic, per 10 millicuries.
Oral magnetic resonance contrast agent, per 100 ml.
Repair of spinal fluid leak.
Injection, ceftazidime, per 500 mg.
Nuclear medicine study of heart muscle following heart attack.
Nuclear medicine study of heart function at rest or stress with evaluation of blood ejection from heart.
Realignment of eye having prior surgery or injury.
Injection of air or X-ray contrast material into abdominal cavity.
Imaging of liver.
Relocation of pacemaker generator skin pocket.
Relocation of defibrillator device skin pocket.
Repair of valve between left heart chambers on heart-lung machine.
Chemical peel of skin of face.
Hearing tests for children.
External hyperthermia treatment depth greater than 4 cm.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (arm to opposite arm artery).
Injection of hypnotic drug for psychiatric diagnosis or therapy.
Introduction of pigment into skin (6.1 to 20.0 sq cm) to correct color defect.
Opening in chest with release of lung lining.
Removal of foreign body from lining of chest cavity using an endoscope.
Removal of lining of lung using an endoscope.
Application of low cost skin substitute graft to face, scalp, eyelids, mouth, neck, ears, orbits, genitalia, hands, feet, and/or multiple digits, total wound surface area up to 100 sq cm; first 25 sq cm or less wound surface area.
Destruction of 1 or more growths in one kidney, accessed through the skin.
Plastic surgery to reconstruct breast with muscle flap.
Removal or bivalving of full arm or leg cast.
Inpatient or outpatient dialysis services.
Protein analysis of tissue by western blot, with interpretation and report.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (upper leg to opposite upper leg artery).
Supervision, handling, loading of radiation.
Injection, dihydroergotamine mesylate, per 1 mg.
Intraoperative radiation treatment management.
Injection, alemtuzumab, 1 mg.
Electronic analysis of pacemaker to correct rapid heart rate.
Diagnostic examination of elbow joint using an endoscope.
Removal of plaque from heart artery at time of bypass graft procedure, open procedure.
Removal of thymus gland, sternal or chest approach.
Collection of blood specimen from central or peripheral venous catheter.
Red blood cells, leukocytes reduced, irradiated, each unit.
Dermagraft, per square centimeter.
Placement of stent of biliary duct, accessed through the skin with imaging including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Modification of contact lens and medical supervision of adaptation.
Insertion of nasal or oral stomach tube using fluoroscopic guidance.
Bone graft at lower leg with microvascular connection.
Removal of malignant growth of jaw bone.
Reconstruction of lower jaw bone with insertion of bone plate.
Cell enumeration using immunologic selection and identification in fluid specimen.
Insertion of breast prosthesis at time of breast repositioning, removal or reconstruction.
Incision of capsule surrounding breast with freeing of scar tissue, open procedure.
Diagnostic examination of voice box using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Removal of cartilage attaching voice box using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Windpipe or lung airway procedure.
Removal of growth of tendon covering or joint capsule of toes.
Insertion of lower heart chamber blood flow assist device through the skin including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Imaging of colon using enema.
Injection, cilastatin sodium; imipenem, per 250 mg.
Removal of vaginal wall.
Removal of abdominal lining, uterus, both ovaries and fallopian tubes with tumor reduction.
Vaccine for influenza for nasal administration.
Injection, prochlorperazine, up to 10 mg.
Sleep monitoring of patient in sleep lab.
Nuclear medicine study of blood.
Chimerism analysis post transplantation.
Hemosiderin (hemoglobin breakdown product) analysis.
Stool porphyrins (metabolism substance) level.
Measurement of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis (clot dissolving) function.
Measurement of cold agglutinin (protein) to screen for infection or disease.
Fungal blood culture (mold or yeast).
Identification of mycobacteria (TB or TB like organism).
Detection test for Mycobacteria tuberculosis (TB bacteria).
Incision of hip tendons, open procedure.
Partial removal of toe joint.
Imaging of brain and spinal cord fluid flow at base of brain.
Exploration of chest for postsurgical bleeding, blood clot, or infection.
Insertion of abdominal catheter through the skin using imaging guidance including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of lower abdominal and genital region.
Dilation of bladder canal (urethra) under general or spinal anesthesia, female.
Removal of single anal polyp or growth using an endoscope.
Injection of chemical for destruction of nerve muscles on trunk, 6 or more muscles.
Removal of stone in urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Measurement and recording of electrical activity (EEG) of the brain including stimulation by medication or physical activity.
Determination of retinal arterial pressure.
Partial removal of stomach.
Removal of esophagus.
Repair of prolapsing hemorrhoids.
Screening test for compatible blood unit.
Developmental testing.
Anesthesia for closed procedure on upper two-thirds of thigh bone.
Gene analysis (phosphatase and tensin homolog), full sequence analysis.
Molecular pathology procedure level 5.
Removal of facial bone to approach brain lesion.
Reshaping of skull bone defect.
Electronic analysis and programming during surgery of implanted gastric neurostimulator generator.
Electronic analysis of implanted gastric neurostimulator generator or transmitter.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted gastric neurostimulator generator or transmitter.
Removal of foreign material from skin, tissue, and muscle at open fracture and/or dislocation.
Reconstruction of an eyelid by transfer of eyelid tissue from opposite eyelid.
Placement of catheter of kidney and urinary tube (ureter), accessed through the skin using imaging guidance with radiological supervision and interpretation.
CT scan of arm blood vessels with contrast.
Examination of uterus with destruction of uterine lining using an endoscope.
Incision to release foot muscle tendon.
Application of shoulder spica cast.
Vaccine for Hepatitis B (3 dose schedule) for injection into muscle, dialysis or immunosuppressed patient.
Anesthesia for treatment of second and third-degree burn, less than 4% total body surface.
Anesthesia for treatment of second and third-degree burn, between 4% and 9% total body surface area.
Repair of torn cruciate ligament and/or knee joint capsule.
Revision and replacement of spinal neurostimulator electrodes.
Repair of vertical lip wound extending to half of lip.
X-ray of middle spinal canal with radiological supervision and interpretation.
Replacement of aortic valve with prosthetic valve.
Incision and drainage of ear canal abscess.
Removal of toe.
Partial removal of toe bone joints.
Destruction or removal of ovary or pelvic growths using an endoscope.
Restoration of eyelid blinking function.
Screening cytopathology, cervical or vaginal (any reporting system), collected in preservative fluid, automated thin layer preparation, with screening by automated system, under physician supervision.
Removal of wrist joint lining using an endoscope.
Ultrasound guidance for repair of blood vessel.
Removal of bone at base of thumb.
Removal of polyps in nose.
Chemical analysis of stone.
Injection, propranolol hcl, up to 1 mg.
Prolonged office or other outpatient service by clinical staff - first hour.
Injection, erythromycin lactobionate, per 500 mg.
Anesthesia for vaginal removal of uterus.
Reconstruction of bladder canal (urethra), male.
Removal of cyst of membrane covering behind knee joint.
Complicated repair of the scrotum.
Aspiration removal of lens material.
Incision, exploration, and removal of foreign body of upper or lower heart chamber on heart-lung machine.
Insertion of artificial valve between left heart chambers on heart-lung machine.
Nuclear medicine study of heart muscle following heart attack with evaluation of blood ejection from heart.
Nuclear medicine study of lung ventilation.
Anesthesia for open amputation below the knee.
Excision of pituitary gland tumor.
Closed treatment of broken great toe.
Repair of blood vessel of chest with vein graft on heart-lung machine.
Scraping of skin growth.
Insertion of device to close opening to voice box using an endoscope.
Incision and drainage of external ear abscess or blood accumulation.
Diagnostic examination of uterus using an endoscope.
Anchoring of tendon of fingers to wrist bone.
Incision of tendon of palm, open procedure.
Lengthening of tendon of hand or finger.
Release of hand muscle.
Preventive fixation of thigh bone.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerve in brain.
Preparation and provision of 3 single stinging insect venom for allergen immunotherapy.
Release of abnormal veins blocking urinary duct (ureter).
Repair of protrusion of intestine into rectum or vagina.
Impression and custom preparation of permanent oral prosthesis.
Irrigation and drainage of sinus.
Application of multiplane external bone fixation system on one arm or leg.
Moderate sedation services by physician or health care provider not performing a procedure.
Removal of lower spine bone with release of frayed spinal cord.
Biopsy of pancreas, open procedure.
Diagnostic examination of the abdomen using an endoscope.
Removal of blood flow assist device in aorta, accessed through the skin.
Removal of previously-placed suture or wire in urinary duct (ureter).
Molecular pathology procedure level 9.
Diagnostic examination of small bowel using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerves, muscles, tendons, fascia, and bursae of upper arm and elbow.
Imaging of bone marrow limited area.
Intensive cardiac rehabilitation; with or without continuous ecg monitoring with exercise, per session.
Intensive cardiac rehabilitation; with or without continuous ecg monitoring; without exercise, per session.
Repair of thigh bone.
Incision of the bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope, female.
Removal of iris to improve eye fluid flow.
Removal of lining of tendon covering of wrist.
Implantation, revision, or repositioning of catheter in spinal canal for medication administration.
Insertion of stents into groin artery, endovascular, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Electro or thermal destruction of cervix.
Treatment of kidney stricture using an endoscope.
Drainage of prostate abscess through bladder canal (urethra).
X-ray of chest, stereo, front.
Dilation of kidney and/or urinary duct (ureter) with creation of drainage tract, accessed through the skin.
Destruction of tissue of eyelid border.
Insertion of tube for kidney drainage.
Removal and replacement of indwelling stent in urinary duct (ureter) including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Destruction and/or removal of kidney growths using an endoscope.
Removal of kidney foreign body or stone using an endoscope.
Placement of stent of urinary duct (ureter), accessed through the skin with imaging including radiological supervision and interpretation.
Reconstruction of urinary duct (ureter).
Destruction and/or removal of kidney or urinary duct (ureter) growths using an endoscopy which is inserted through an already created urinary duct (ureter) opening.
Infusion of chemical agent into the artery of brain with insertion of catheter and imaging.
Injection, doxorubicin hydrochloride, liposomal, not otherwise specified, 10 mg.
Repair of wound (7.6 to 12.5 centimeters) of neck, hands, feet, and/or genitals.
Repair of separation of chest bone.
Placement of graft for repair of aorta with radiological supervision and interpretation, with 3 artery prostheses.
Interpretation and report of congenital heart ultrasound examination using esophageal probe.
Removal of growth of dental bone with repair.
Incision of bladder with basket removal and/or ultrasonic crushing of stones in urinary duct (ureter).
Reconstruction of upper heart chamber tissue and alteration of electrical pathway using an endoscope.
Removal of bladder with transplantation of urinary ducts (ureters) to small or large bowel with creation of urinary opening.
Chemical destruction of anal growths.
Technetium tc-99m exametazime, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 25 millicuries.
Microbial identification.
Dressing change and/or removal of burn tissue (5% to 10% total body surface).
Removal of membrane covering hip joint.
Removal of bone cyst or growth of hip or pelvic bone.
Lengthening of thigh bone.
Injection of synthetic eye fluid.
Suture of abdominal cavity tissue.
Open treatment of traumatic hip dislocation.
X-ray of junction of breast and collar bones, minimum of 2 views.
Anesthesia for groin artery bypass graft and tying of upper leg artery.
Suture of internal abdominal lining using an endoscope.
Excisional destruction of anal growths.
Injection, amifostine, 500 mg.
Internal shock to heart to regulate heart beat.
Removal of uterine muscle tumor using an endoscope.
Repair of opening into cochlea.
Iodine i-131 sodium iodide capsule(s), diagnostic, per millicurie.
X-ray of jaw joints on both sides of the face.
Sipuleucel-t, minimum of 50 million autologous cd54+ cells activated with pap-gm-csf, including leukapheresis and all other preparatory procedures, per infusion.
Removal of prostate gland and lymph node biopsy through abdominal incision.
Injection fluconazole, 200 mg.
Iodine i-123 sodium iodide, diagnostic, per millicurie.
Balloon occlusion of head or neck artery.
Measurement of antibody to infectious organism.
Analysis for antibody to Rotavirus (intestinal virus).
Repair of defect or perforation of eardrum.
Platelet rich plasma, each unit.
Opening in chest with partial removal of lung tissue.
Dilation of anus using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for removal of breast.
Aspiration and injection treatment of bone cyst.
Drainage of tailbone cyst.
Removal of soft tissue at roof of mouth.
Dilation of rectum and large bowel using an endoscope.
Control of anal bleeding using an endoscope.
Assessment of hearing using different tone pitches.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of liver vein, injection of contrast (accessed through the skin).
Creation of connection between two segments of small bowel.
Fusion of first two upper spine bones of spinal column, posterior approach.
Prosthetic repair of bulging (aneurysm) of aorta.
Evaluation and recording of voice box sensory function using an endoscope.
Evaluation, recording, and interpretation of voice box sensory function using an endoscope.
Functional MRI scan of brain.
Biopsy of abdomen using an endoscope.
Application of vein wound compression system upper arm and forearm.
Application of vein wound compression system upper arm, forearm, hand, and fingers.
Gene analysis (breast cancer 1 and 2) uncommon duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (mutL homolog 1, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 2) full sequence analysis.
Gene analysis (mutS homolog 2, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 1) known familial variants.
Gene analysis (mutS homolog 6 [E coli]) duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (phosphatase and tensin homolog), duplication or deletion variant.
Molecular pathology procedure level 6.
Molecular pathology procedure level 8.
Detection test for legionella pneumophila (water borne bacteria).
Detection test for Mycoplasma pneumoniae (bacteria).
Anesthesia for procedure on salivary gland with biopsy.
Injection, chloroprocaine hydrochloride, per 30 ml.
Rectal procedure.
Progesterone (reproductive hormone) receptor analysis.
Partial removal of shoulder blade.
Reconstruction of upper arm bone.
Suture of ruptured muscle of thigh.
Shortening of thigh bone.
Anesthesia for open amputation at upper two-thirds of thigh bone.
Fusion of knee.
Abdominal removal of uterus and partial removal of vagina.
Removal of abdominal lining, uterus, both ovaries and fallopian tubes, and pelvic and aortic lymph nodes with tumor reduction.
Closed treatment of pelvic ring fracture or dislocation with manipulation under anesthesia.
Removal of pressure sore and bone at sacrum in preparation of muscle flap or skin graft.
Injection, azithromycin, 500 mg.
X-ray of teeth, full mouth.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of repair of chest aorta with graft.
Reshaping of tip of nose.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) muscle growth of pelvis or hip.
Partial removal of tongue.
Removal of esophagus tissue using an endoscope.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of drawing blood via catheter procedure.
Blood unit compatibility test.
Detection test for Mycobacteria avium-intracellulare (bacteria).
Incision of nasal sinus.
Ultrasonic guidance for biopsy of heart wall.
Testing of lung function at high altitude.
Hormonal panel for adrenal gland assessment (adrenal gland insufficiency).
Repair of central venous catheter for infusion.
Closed treatment of thigh bone fracture with manipulation.
Application of cranial halo device (stabilization device for skull).
Connection of bile duct to small bowel.
Repair of dislocating knee cap.
Destruction of growth or scar of mouth.
Replacement and enlargement of left lower heart valve.
Destruction of mass on gallbladder, pancreatic, liver, and bile ducts using an endoscope.
Negative pressure wound therapy surface area less than or equal to 50 square centimeters per session.
Oncology (high-grade prostate cancer), biochemical assay of four proteins (total psa, free psa, intact psa and human kallidrein 2 (hk2)) plus patient age, digital rectal examination status, and no history of positive prostate biopsy, utilizing plasma, prog.
Gene analysis (ABL proto-oncogene 1, non-receptor tyrosine kinase).
Gene analysis (Fanconi anemia, complementation group C) common variant.
Gene analysis (fms-related tyrosine kinase 3) internal tandem duplication variants.
Test for detecting genes associated with blood cancer.
Gene analysis (glucose-6-phosphatase, catalytic subunit) common variants.
Gene analysis (glucosidase, beta, acid) common variants.
Gene analysis (hexosaminidase A) common variants.
Gene analysis (v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog), D816 variants.
Gene analysis (mucolipin 1) common variants.
Gene analysis for cancer (neuroblastoma).
Screening test for chlorinated hydrocarbons.
Glucagon (pancreatic hormone) level.
Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A level.
Sialic acid (organic acid) level.
Manual blood cell count.
Assessment of blood clotting function.
Clotting factor XIII (fibrin stabilizing) measurement.
Clotting factor inhibitor test.
Red blood cell fragility measurement.
Blood coagulation screening test.
Analysis for antibody to Borrelia (relapsing fever bacteria).
Analysis for antibody to Giardia lamblia (intestinal parasite).
Analysis for antibody to john cunningham virus.
Immunologic analysis for autoimmune disease.
Immunology procedures.
Red blood cell antibody level.
Detection test for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
Screening cytopathology smears, cervical or vaginal, performed by automated system with manual rescreening.
Closed treatment of broken and/or dislocated spine bones with casting and/or bracing with manipulation.
Injection procedure for X-ray imaging of penile erection.
Preparation of donor heart for transplantation.
Suspension of small bowel using mesh or prosthesis.
Placement of (up to 4 centimeter length) head or neck nerve graft.
Detection test for enterovirus (intestinal virus).
Programming device evaluation of heart monitoring system with adjustment of programmed values with analysis, review and report.
Closed treatment of broken forearm bone at elbow.
Repair of wound of eyelid margin.
Gene analysis (thyroid cancer).
Cast supplies, long arm splint, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Anesthesia for procedure on upper front abdominal wall.
Aspiration of voice box using an endoscope.
Removal of growth of tendon covering or joint capsule of foot.
Partial removal of liver lobe.
Partial removal of pancreas.
First degree burn treatment.
Plastic repair through the vagina of muscles at urinary opening (sphincter).
Repositioning of implanted pacemaker or defibrillator device.
Vaccine for influenza for injection into muscle, patient 6-35 months of age.
Removal or revision of implant outside eye muscles.
Ultrasound procedure.
Removal of hip joint lining using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for procedure on arteries of forearm, wrist, and hand.
Injection abciximab, 10 mg.
Esophagus procedure.
Insertion of electrodes in bone for measurement and recording of brain wave activity (EEG).
Nuclear medicine single study of vessels of heart using drugs or exercise.
Examination of kidney and urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscopy which is inserted through an already created urinary duct (ureter) opening.
Removal of foreign body or stone from kidney or urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscopy which is inserted through an already created urinary duct (ureter) opening.
Anesthesia for open procedure on pubic bone or sacroiliac joint.
Pressure measurement of pancreatic or bile duct using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for insertion of penile prosthesis.
Incision of hip tendon, open procedure.
Surface application of radiation.
Dilation of tissue at uterine opening (cervix).
Insertion of drug agent or packing to control vaginal bleeding.
Injection, ferumoxytol, for treatment of iron deficiency anemia, 1 mg (for esrd on dialysis).
Repair of bulging defect (aneurysm) of aorta.
Removal of remaining thyroid tissue.
Prosthetic implant, not otherwise specified.
Study of sleep and wake patterns including interpretation and report, minimum of 72 hours to 14 consecutive days of recording.
Removal of soft tissue growth of ear canal.
Open treatment of broken eye socket bone with implant.
Drainage of wound infection after surgery.
Removal of joint lining at first joint of toe.
Cast supplies, short leg cast, pediatric (0-10 years), fiberglass.
Removal of mouth tissue for grafting.
Removal or destruction of (greater than 10.0 centimeters) abdominal cavity growths, cysts, or abnormal tissue, open procedure.
Radioelements for brachytherapy, any type, each.
Removal of polyps or growths of large bowel using an endoscope which is inserted through abdominal opening.
Reconstruction of ear canal.
Cast supplies, short leg splint, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Infusion or instillation of radioelement solution, includes 3-month follow-up care.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of balloon dilation of narrowed renal or abdominal organ artery.
CT scan of upper spine before and after contrast.
Cardiac output measurements.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (aorta to abdominal or kidney artery).
Removal of pelvic or aortic lymph nodes.
Anterior pituitary gland evaluation panel.
Assessment of nighttime erection.
Injection, alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor (human), not otherwise specified, 10 mg.
Suture closure of the vagina and vaginal opening.
Lymph node procedure using an endoscope.
Nuclear medicine backwash of urine into kidney.
Open treatment of dislocated foot joint.
Biopsy of vagina and cervix using an endoscope.
Abdominal removal of uterus (greater than 250 grams), tubes, and/or ovaries using an endoscope.
MRI scan of leg with contrast.
Repair of wound (over 30.0 centimeters) of the scalp, underarms, trunk, arms, and/or legs.
Partial removal of bone of thigh and/or lower leg bones.
Power adapter for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, vehicle type.
Power module for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Microprocessor control unit for use with electric ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Battery/power pack charger for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Battery clips for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Holster for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Belt/vest/bag for use to carry external peripheral components of any type ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Shower cover for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Battery, lithium-ion, for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Miscellaneous supply or accessory for use with any implanted ventricular assist device for which payment was not made under medicare part a.
Removal of growth of tongue.
Ultrasound scanning for blood clot detection with microbubble injection in head and neck vessel blood flow (inside the brain).
Foreign body removal in rectum and large bowel using an endoscope.
Dilation of the voice box using an endoscope.
Removal of growth from voice box using a flexible endoscope.
Removal of protrusion sclera or cornea with graft.
Relocation of patient skin (20 sq centimeters or less) to trunk.
Biopsy of tongue.
Intraoperative single X-ray radiation treatment session.
Measurement of nerve conduction patterns of eye blink reflex.
Convert stomach tube to small bowel tube (accessed beneath the skin) using an endoscope.
Closed treatment of broken upper arm bone with manipulation.
Closed treatment of upper thigh bone fracture.
Closed treatment of fracture below neck of upper thigh bone.
Infusion, albumin (human), 5%, 50 ml.
Insertion of hardware to lower forearm bone broken or growth plate separation, accessed through the skin.
Revision and removal of prosthetic vaginal graft.
Biopsy of floor of mouth.
Injection of dilated veins of stomach and/or esophagus using an endoscope.
CT scan of arm before and after contrast.
Tests for facial paralysis disorders.
Injection, procainamide hcl, up to 1 gm.
Technetium tc-99m disofenin, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 15 millicuries.
Removal of lymph nodes of neck.
Creation of permanent opening of windpipe for breathing.
Removal of hip prosthesis.
Repair of thigh bone with insertion of stabilizing fixation.
Technetium tc-99m tilmanocept, diagnostic, up to 0.5 millicuries.
Indium in-111 pentetreotide, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 6 millicuries.
Repair of eardrum and ear canal with opening to ear bones.
Injection, vinorelbine tartrate, 10 mg.
Incision of spine bone with removal of disc at upper spinal column.
Removal or revision of sling around bladder canal (urethra) to control leakage.
Injection, edetate calcium disodium, up to 1000 mg.
Insertion of stents into windpipe using an endoscope.
Incision or removal of tissue below left lower heart valve.
Repair of aorta at heart.
Injection, pentazocine, 30 mg.
Placement of interstitial device(s) for radiation therapy/surgery guidance (e.g., fiducial markers, dosimeter), for other than the following sites (any approach): abdomen, pelvis, prostate, retroperitoneum, thorax, single or multiple.
Needle biopsy of spinal cord, accessed beneath the skin.
Technetium tc-99m pertechnetate, diagnostic, per millicurie.
Destruction of 1 or more bone growths accessed through the skin.
Insertion of stomach feeding tube, open procedure.
Injection, sulfur hexafluoride lipid microspheres, per ml.
Low frequency, non-contact, non-thermal ultrasound wound assessment, and instructions for ongoing care, per day.
Anesthesia for partial removal of liver or management of bleeding including use of an endoscope.
Reconstruction of nipple or area around nipple.
Injection, buprenorphine hydrochloride, 0.1 mg.
Removal of scar tissue of tendon of forearm and/or wrist.
X-ray of chest, complete, minimum of 4 views.
Closed treatment of dislocation of toe joint under anesthesia.
Examination of head, neck, including ears, nose and throat under general anesthesia.
Examination of cervical or vaginal slide for hormonal evaluation.
X-ray of eye bones, minimum of 4 views.
Analysis of stone.
Tying and incision leg vein.
Tying of varicosed veins in one leg, open procedure.
Removal of abdominal cavity lymph nodes.
Removal of bladder and lymph nodes on both sides of pelvis with transplantation of urinary ducts (ureters) to small and/or large bowel with creation of urinary opening, open procedure.
Dilation of esophagus using an endoscope.
Repair of wrist joint, open procedure.
Removal or destruction of growth in nose.
Evaluation of defibrillator with analysis, review, and report.
Repair of eardrum.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of arm artery.
Partial removal of prostate gland.
Surface recording of electrical activity of muscles during walking or other functional activities 1-12 muscles.
Partial removal of chest cavity lining and lung using an endoscope.
Drainage of breast abscess.
Insertion of guide wire through kidney into urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Primatrix, per square centimeter.
Nuclear medicine study of cardiovascular systems.
Hormone receptor analysis.
Removal and replacement of all components of a multi-component inflatable penile prosthesis at same surgery.
Assistive technology assessment to enhance functional performance, each 15 minutes.
Non-imaging determination of cardiovascular function.
Cardiac shunt detection.
Temporary pacemaker to regulate heart beat.
Insertion of pacing defibrillator pulse generator with existing single lead.
Removal of appendix using an endoscope.
CT scan of pelvic blood vessels with contrast.
Diagnostic examination of defect in wall of small bowel using an endoscope.
Injection of agent to paralyze anal muscle.
Repair of the scrotum.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure on liver vein.
Pentamidine isethionate, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, per 300 mg.
Transplant of tendon to palm.
Shortening of one of the forearm bones.
Abdominal removal of uterus, cervix, and lymph nodes on both sides of pelvis and aortic lymph node biopsy.
Removal of scar tissue of ovaries or uterine tubes.
Removal of voice box.
Release of intestinal scar tissue.
Anesthesia for closed procedure on lower leg, ankle, and foot.
Oasis ultra tri-layer wound matrix, per square centimeter.
Removal of middle or lower spine bone with release of spinal cord or nerves, combined thoracolumbar approach.
Injection, chlorpromazine hcl, up to 50 mg.
Injection, doripenem, 10 mg.
Injection, piperacillin sodium/tazobactam sodium, 1 gram/0.125 grams (1.125 grams).
Nuclear medicine study of tear drainage structure of eye.
Aspiration or release of eye fluid between the lens and retina.
Correction of deformity of first long bone at toe joint.
Incision or puncture of fluid-producing glands for sperm movement (semen).
Suture of bladder neck to vaginal wall and pubic bone with bladder canal suspension.
Drainage of abscess of lower spine or sacrum, open procedure.
Fluoroscopic procedure.
Injection, amphotericin b lipid complex, 10 mg.
Application of cylinder cast (thigh to ankle).
Closed treatment of knee dislocation.
Closed treatment of dislocation of knee cap.
Drainage of finger abscess.
Removal (over 4.0 centimeters) growth of the face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Removal of heel bone.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of dilation of biliary duct (accessed through the skin).
Repair of wrist joint.
Test for detecting genes associated with heart vessels diseases.
MRI of heart with stress imaging.
HLA class I and II typing low resolution HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1/3/4/5 and -DQB1.
Catecholamines (organic nitrogen) urine level.
White blood cell histamine (immune system chemical) release test.
Exploration, drainage, or removal of foreign body of foot.
Anesthesia for diagnostic examination of shoulder joint using an endoscope.
Injection, linezolid, 200 mg.
Cast supplies, long leg cast, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Urinalysis for bacteria.
Anesthesia for closed procedure on bones of forearm, wrist, or hand.
Attachment of vagina to rear pelvic bone (sacrum).
Diagnostic examination of the wrist using an endoscope.
Anus procedure.
Obstetric blood test panel.
Blood test panel for obstetrics ( cbc, differential wbc count, hepatitis b, hiv, rubella, syphilis, antibody screening, rbc, blood typing).
Caffeine level.
Aminolevulinic acid (protein) level.
X-ray analysis of stone.
Heparin neutralization test.
Analysis for antibody to Salmonella (intestinal bacteria).
Identification of organism using chromatography.
Detection test for herpes simplex virus type 2.
Detection test for herpes simplex virus type 1.
Detection test for cryptococcus neoformans (yeast).
Repair of prolapsed rectum.
Fusion of spine bones for correction of deformity, posterior approach, 7 to 12 vertebral segments.
Injection, dicyclomine hcl, up to 20 mg.
Tubular dressing with or without elastic, any width, per linear yard.
High osmolar contrast material, 300-349 mg/ml iodine concentration, per ml.
Urinalysis, 2 or 3 glass test.
Compensator-based beam modulation treatment delivery of inverse planned treatment using 3 or more high resolution (milled or cast) compensator, convergent beam modulated fields, per treatment session.
Removal of growth of hand or foot nerve.
Closed treatment of nasal cartilage dividing nasal passages.
Therapeutic services for use of speech-generating device with programming.
Partial removal of bladder.
Hemoglobin-oxygen affinity measurement.
Removal of facial bone growth.
Removal of bony growth of jaw bone inside mouth.
Suture and/or tying chest lymph duct.
Removal of growth of small or large bowels.
Ultrasound examination of lower large bowel using an endoscope.
Ultrasound examination of esophagus using an endoscope.
Negative pressure wound therapy surface area greater than 50 square centimeters.
Vaginal removal of uterus (250 grams or less), tubes, and/or ovaries with repair of herniated bowel.
Anesthesia for closed diagnostic examination of chest using an endoscope.
Stomach emptying and small bowel with colon transit study.
Closed treatment of broken nasal bone with stabilization.
Biopsy of spine bone at upper or lower spinal column, open procedure.
Open treatment of broken and/or dislocated spine bones.
External hyperthermia treatment depth 4 cm or less.
Patient programmer (external) for use with implantable programmable neurostimulator pulse generator, replacement only.
External recharging system for battery (internal) for use with implantable neurostimulator, replacement only.
Gene analysis (phosphatase and tensin homolog), known familial variant.
Detection test for clostridium difficile toxin A (bacteria).
Removal of tissue and/or bone at elbow, open procedure.
Removal of fluid-producing glands for sperm movement (semen).
External ear procedure.
Injections into esophagus using an endoscope.
Biopsy of lining of nose.
Infusion into tissue for therapy or prevention, beneath the skin.
Infusion for therapy or prevention, beneath the skin.
Removal of a segment of lung tissue.
Lung and lung lining procedure.
Clotting factor VIII related antigen measurement.
Injections into large bowel using an endoscope.
Hydroxyproline (amino acid) measurement.
Freezing destruction of cervix.
Technetium tc-99m bicisate, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 25 millicuries.
Insertion of catheter into left or right pulmonary (lung) artery.
Measurement and graphic recording of amount and speed of breathed air including transmission of tracing, analysis, recalibration of device, physician review and interpretation over 30 days.
Test for detecting genes associated with breast cancer.
Gene analysis (colon related cancer).
Removal of scar tissue of ovaries or uterine tubes using an endoscope.
Creation of small bowel opening using an endoscope.
Nushield, per square centimeter.
Reconstruction of bone around spinal canal with release of spinal cord.
Removal or biopsy of sacral spine bone growth.
Euglobulin lysis (clot dissolving) measurement.
Alpha-2 antiplasmin (factor inhibitor) measurement.
Plasminogen antigenic (factor inhibitor) measurement.
Emergent surgical opening of windpipe for insertion of breathing tube.
Ultrasound of pregnant uterus (first trimester) single or first fetus.
Injection, plerixafor, 1 mg.
Correction of inverted nipples of breast.
Removal of sac that covers the heart on heart-lung machine.
Technetium tc-99m exametazime labeled autologous white blood cells, diagnostic, per study dose.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of spinal canal, 2 or more spinal regions.
Plastic repair of salivary duct.
Salivary gland duct dilation.
Removal of kidney and partial removal of urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Removal of kidney and urinary duct (ureter) using an endoscope.
Nuclear medicine kidney function study.
Iodine i-125 sodium iothalamate, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 10 microcuries.
Injection, chloramphenicol sodium succinate, up to 1 gm.
florbetaben f18 diagnostic.
Removal of multiple external anal growths.
Removal of multiple external hemorrhoids.
Suture of liver wound to control bleeding.
Skin test for candida (yeast).
Injection of medication into eye.
Biopsy of cervix using an endoscope.
Puraply, and puraply antimicrobial, any type, per square centimeter.
Removal of rectal growth.
Bypass operation of stomach with reconstruction of small bowel using an endoscope.
Injection of anesthetic agent, abdominal sympathetic nerve bundle.
Relocation of skin (100 sq cm or less) for tissue cultured graft.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) tissue growth of leg or ankle.
Removal of gallbladder with X-ray study of bile ducts.
Removal of sac that covers the heart.
Computer-assisted, fluoroscopic image-guided musculoskeletal surgical navigational orthopedic operation.
Assessment of antibody to human leukocyte antigens (HLA) with high definition qualitative panel for identification of antibody specificities, HLA class I.
Assessment of antibody to human leukocyte antigens (HLA) with high definition qualitative panel for identification of antibody specificities, HLA class II.
Drainage of tear-producing gland.
Injection, ifosfamide, 1 gram.
Injection, mesna, 200 mg.
Biopsy of lung lining using an endoscope.
Tissue culture for tumor disorders.
Strengthening of thigh bone.
Open treatment of broken and/or dislocated middle spine bones.
Anesthesia for procedure to repair calf muscle.
Insertion of devices in abdominal cavity for radiation therapy guidance, accessed through the skin.
Repair of valve between right upper and lower heart chambers.
Evaluation of patient with prescription of speech-generating and alternative communication device.
Nursing facility conference.
Scraping of tissue of cervix.
Ultrasound of fetal heart blood flow.
Ultrasound of fetal heart.
Removal of fluid-filled sac (bursa) below knee joint.
Repair of wound of eyelids, nose, ears, and/or lips.
Creation of large bowel drainage tract to skin surface.
Needle biopsy of salivary gland.
Removal of foreign body in muscle or tendon.
Catheter instillation of agent onto lung surface.
Insertion of small bowel tube, open procedure.
Detection test for varicella (chicken pox) zoster virus.
Proton treatment delivery, simple.
Connection of urinary duct (ureter) to small bowel with creation of opening.
Shock wave therapy under anesthesia to sole of the foot using ultrasound guidance.
Microscopic genetic analysis of muscle.
Anesthesia for surgery of facial bones or skull.
Removal of loose or foreign body of hip joint using an endoscope.
Removal of fluid-filled sac of elbow.
Removal (1.5 centimeters or greater) tissue beneath the skin growth of hand or finger.
Insertion of wire and dilation of esophagus using an endoscope.
Exploration, drainage, or removal of foreign body of toe joint.
Insertion of small bowel stent using an endoscope.
Adenosine, 5-monophosphate, cyclic (cyclic AMP) level.
Injection, protein c concentrate, intravenous, human, 10 iu.
Nuclear medicine study of nervous systems.
Repair of wound (7.6 to 12.5 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, underarms, genitals, trunk, arms and/or legs.
Freezing destruction of penile growths.
Destruction of external female genital growths.
Hernia repair procedure using an endoscope.
Injection of drug into erectile tissue at sides and back of penis.
Injection, phenylephrine hcl, up to 1 ml.
Manipulation of ankle under general anesthesia.
Anesthesia for procedure on nerves, muscles, tendons, fascia, and bursae of upper leg.
Destruction of growths in one lung, accessed through the skin.
Biotinidase (enzyme) level.
Removal or scraping of cyst or growth of either bone of lower leg.
Removal or scraping of bone cyst or growth of ankle bone.
Repair of the muscle separating the chest and abdominal cavities.
Insertion of abdominal cavity catheter for drug delivery beneath the skin.
Removal of implant from finger or hand.
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and recording 24 hours or longer.
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, scanning analysis, and report 24 hours or longer.
Removal or destruction of (5.1 to 10.0 centimeters) abdominal cavity growths, cysts, or abnormal tissue, open abdominal procedure.
X-ray of mandible, minimum of 4 views.
Removal and replacement of inflatable bladder canal (urethra) or bladder neck sphincter.
Repair of inflatable bladder canal (urethra) or bladder neck sphincter, including pump, reservoir, and cuff.
Removal of kidney and transplantation of donor kidney.
Removal of multiple growths of different eyelids.
Skin test histoplasmosis (parasite infection).
Incision of prostate through bladder canal (urethra).
Removal of all underarm lymph nodes.
Anesthesia for treatment of second and third-degree burn.
Forensic (investigation) examination of specimen.
Release of ankle joint capsule.
Correction of foot deformity with incision of ankle joint capsule and lengthening of tendons.
Plastic repair of prolapsed urinary canal (urethra) into vaginal wall.
Destruction of rectal growth.
Insertion of catheter in right heart for imaging of blood vessels or grafts.
Blood gas, oxygen saturation measurement.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) tissue growth of thigh or knee.
Release of bladder canal (urethra) scar tissue using an endoscope.
Revision or removal of brain neurostimulator generator or receiver.
Tiagabine level.
Corticosterone (hormone) level.
Desoxycorticosterone, 11 (hormone) level.
Estrogen receptor analysis.
Diagnostic aspiration of spinal disc or tissue, accessed through the skin.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of vein system of head.
Application of hip spica cast on one leg.
Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment area,single port or parallel opposed ports, simple blocks or no blocks: up to 5 mev.
Release of collar bone and shoulder ligament.
Creation of sling around male bladder canal (urethra) to control leakage.
Test for detecting genes associated with colon cancer.
Control of esophageal bleeding using an endoscope.
Relocation of patient skin to scalp, arms, and/or legs.
Removal of malignant growth (0.5 centimeters or less) of the scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Preparation and provision of 5 single stinging insect venom for allergen immunotherapy.
Open treatment of dislocated 1 or more wrist joint bones.
Creation of nerve and blood vessel skin graft.
Diagnostic examination of small bowel using an endoscope which is inserted through abdominal opening.
Removal of esophageal polyps or growths using an endoscope.
Repair of anal muscle to correct incontinence, adult.
Repositioning or removal of external dialysis tube from vein to artery.
Insertion of hardware to stabilize broken thigh bone or separated growth plate, accessed through the skin.
Treatment of broken leg bone with assistance of an endoscope.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of middle spinal canal.
Release of scar tissue from conjunctiva.
Red blood cells, leukocytes reduced, cmv-negative, irradiated, each unit.
Partial removal of large bowel with creation of opening.
Suture of small bowel for perforated ulcer, pouch, wound, injury or rupture.
Suture of multiple small bowel ulcers, defects, wounds, injuries, or rupture.
Suture of large bowel ulcer, defect, wound, injury, or rupture.
Exploration behind abdominal cavity.
Drainage of lymph fluid to abdominal cavity using an endoscope.
Gene analysis (peripheral myelin protein 22), duplication or deletion analysis.
Stool trypsin (pancreatic enzyme) analysis, 24-hour collection.
Insertion of catheters for recording and pacing right upper and lower heart rhythm.
Destruction of vascular growth between retina and sclera, at single session.
Imaging of esophagus using radioisotopes.
Imaging of brain and spinal cord fluid flow shunt evaluation.
Measurement of antibody to streptokinase (enzyme).
Anesthesia for open procedure on lower one-third of thigh bone.
Insertion of catheter into portal vein of liver, accessed through the skin.
Application of cranial tongs (stabilization device for skull).
Removal of nasal sinuses to approach brain lesion.
Removal of jaw bone to approach brain lesion.
Iodine i-131 sodium iodide, diagnostic, per microcurie (up to 100 microcuries).
Diagnostic examination of large bowel using an endoscope which is inserted through abdominal opening.
Biopsies of large bowel using an endoscope which is inserted through abdominal opening.
Incision to straighten big toe bone.
Fusion of ankle joint.
Injection to test for myasthenia gravis.
Follow-up or limited ultrasound examination of congenital heart defect.
Repositioning of foreskin including scar tissue removal.
Biopsy of small bowel using an endoscope which is inserted through abdominal opening.
Impression and custom preparation of facial prosthesis.
Evaluation of speech fluency.
Injection, hyaluronidase, up to 150 units.
Blood typing for red blood cell antigens.
Reopening of recent abdominal incision.
Partial reconstruction of lower jaw or cheek bone with insertion of implant.
Partial removal of the prostate gland.
Repair of wound (20.1 to 30.0 centimeters) of the scalp, underarms, trunk, arms, and/or legs.
Biopsy of tissue of pelvis and hip.
Partial removal of hip or pelvic bone.
Removal of foreign body from ear canal under anesthesia.
Closure of large or small bowel opening using an endoscope.
Destruction of anal polyps or growths using an endoscope.
Suture of bladder canal (urethra) wound or injury, female.
Abdominal removal of uterus.
Injectable bulking agent, dextranomer/hyaluronic acid copolymer implant, anal canal, 1 ml, includes shipping and necessary supplies.
Chemical test for genetic disorder.
Cholinesterase (enzyme) level, to test for exposure to chemical or liver disease.
b-Hexosaminidase (enzyme) level.
Organic acids analysis.
Prostaglandin (hormone) level.
Pyruvate kinase (enzyme) level.
Clotting factor XIII (fibrin stabilizing) screening test.
Stem cells count, total.
Analysis for antibody to La crosse (California) virus (encephalitis causing virus).
Analysis for antibody to Eastern equine virus (viral encephalitis).
Analysis for antibody to St. Louis virus (viral encephalitis).
Analysis for antibody to Western equine virus (viral encephalitis).
Immunologic analysis for organ transplant.
Removal of antibodies from surface of red blood cell.
Pretreatment of serum for use in red blood cell antibody analysis and measurement.
Nuclear medicine study of kidney with assessment of blood flow.
Formoterol fumarate, inhalation solution, fda approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, 20 micrograms.
Assessment of antibody to human leukocyte antigens (HLA), HLA class I.
Assessment of antibody to human leukocyte antigens (HLA) with solid phase assays, HLA class II.
Removal of middle spine bone and growth.
Refill kit for implantable infusion pump.
Removal of bone flap or prosthesis from skull.
Replacement of bone flap or prosthesis in skull.
Phosphohexose isomerase (enzyme) level.
Removal of temporal bone of ear.
Release of facial nerve.
Injection of blood or blood clot into spinal canal.
Diagnostic examination of shoulder using an endoscope.
Removal of infected artificial material or mesh from abdomen.
Repositioning of recurrent groin hernia using an endoscope.
Administration of first vaccine or toxoid component through 18 years of age with counseling.
Injection, gamma globulin, intramuscular, 1 cc.
Lengthening of esophagus using an endoscope.
Removal or biopsy of middle spine bone growth.
Light compression bandage, elastic, knitted/woven, width less than three inches, per yard.
Anesthesia for procedure to repair upper abdominal hernia.
Removal of (5 centimeters or greater) muscle growth of neck or front of chest.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) muscle growth of back or flank.
CT scan of face before and after contrast.
Anesthesia for open or endoscopic procedure on elbow.
Repair of brain covering by vascular or combined vascular muscle graft.
Follow-up or repeat ultrasound of fetal heart.
Release of extensive eye scar tissue.
Repair of lacerated cornea and/or sclera.
Needle biopsy of lining of lung, accessed through the skin.
Gene analysis (adenomatous polyposis coli), duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (mutS homolog 2, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 1) duplication or deletion variants.
Test for detecting genes associated with blood related cancer.
Transplant antibody measurement.
Drainage of abscess or blood collection at thigh or knee region.
Open treatment of hip socket fractures with insertion of hardware.
Incision of bone of thigh or knee.
Partial removal of shin bone.
Injection, bleomycin sulfate, 15 units.
Biopsy of small bowel by capsule or tube.
Incision and drainage of abscess or blood accumulation in soft tissues of neck or chest.
Injection, doxorubicin hydrochloride, liposomal, imported lipodox, 10 mg.
Destruction of malignant growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of scalp, neck, hands, feet, or genitals.
Blood vessel procedure using an endoscope.
Partial removal of small bowel using an endoscope.
Creation of tract to drain liver cyst or abscess.
Placement of flap of lining of abdominal cavity including blood vessels.
Insertion of catheter for drainage into sac that covers the heart.
Insertion of radiation therapy devices in uterus for radiation therapy.
Injection, gadofosveset trisodium, 1 ml.
Range of motion testing of hand.
Multiple-family group psychotherapy.
Injection, penicillin g potassium, up to 600,000 units.
Ultrasound guided needle aspiration or biopsy of lower large bowel using an endoscope.
Musculoskeletal procedure on head.
Biopsy of salivary gland.
Repair of lacerated conjunctiva using flap or graft.
Middle ear exploration.
Application of organ cavity radiation source, complex.
Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, high activity, palladium-103, greater than 2.2 mci (nist), per source.
Heat delivery to muscle at esophagus and/or stomach to treat gastric reflux using an endoscope.
Repair of curvature of penis.
Removal of eyeball with implant.
Creation of small bowel feeding tube.
Removal of toxins from blood.
Injection of over 10.0 cc filling material, beneath the skin.
Drainage, biopsy, or removal of foreign body of chest cavity.
Removal of (5 centimeters or greater) growth of neck or front of chest.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) tissue growth of leg or ankle.
Partial removal of lung tissue for diagnostic examination.
Creation of opening of windpipe and with insertion of speech prosthesis.
Removal and reconnection of diseased or injured portion of urinary duct (ureter).
Connection to bladder of lower portion of urinary duct (ureter).
Low dose rate (ldr) prostate brachytherapy services, composite rate.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of liver vein with assessment of blood flow, injection of contrast (accessed through the skin).
Manipulation of spine under anesthesia.
Biopsy of tear sac of the eye.
Test for detecting genes associated with rheumatoid arthritis using immunoassay technique.
Closed treatment of knee cap fracture.
Injection, von willebrand factor complex (humate-p), per iu vwf:rco.
Anesthesia for biopsy of collar bone.
Anesthesia for closed manipulation of spine.
Anesthesia for procedure on upper rear abdominal wall.
Reshaping of (up to 5 centimeter diameter) skull bone defect.
Insertion of pacemaker pulse generator with existing single lead.
Intra-operative heart pacing and mapping of abnormal heart rhythm for surgical correction.
Inoculation of embryonated eggs, or small animal for virus isolation.
Injection, hyoscyamine sulfate, up to 0.25 mg.
Revision or removal of brain neurostimulator electrodes.
Removal of mastoid bone.
Incision and drainage of female genitals abscess.
Injection for repair of abnormal muscle drainage tract.
Anesthesia for procedure on major lower abdominal wall blood vessels.
Reconstruction of bladder canal (urethra), female.
Tying of major artery of the abdomen.
Insertion of external drains from gallbladder, bile duct and small bowel.
Graft to relieve or reactivate facial paralysis.
Incision of artery in one arm for insertion of prosthesis, open procedure.
Injection of abnormal muscle drainage tract for X-ray study.
Anesthesia for liver transplant recipient including use of an endoscope.
Placement of tube with optical power to cornea.
Cast supplies, long leg splint, adult (11 years +), fiberglass.
Anesthesia for X-ray procedure on chest or neck vein.
Vacuum drainage collection unit and tubing kit, including all supplies needed for collection unit change, for use with implanted catheter, each.
Reconstruction or repair of prostatic or membranous bladder canal (urethra).
Warfarin responsiveness testing by genetic technique using any method, any number of specimen(s).
Dilation of rectal scar tissue under anesthesia.
Injection, digoxin, up to 0.5 mg.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) tissue growth in abdominal wall.
Incisional correction of abnormal rotation of small bowel.
Removal of blood clot in underarm or upper chest vein.
Three-dimensional, video-taped, computer-based gait analysis.
Repair of eardrum, ear canal, and bones.
Repair of blood vessel of arm with vein graft.
Destruction of malignant growth (over 4.0 centimeters) of face, ears, eyelids, nose, lips, or mouth.
Vaginal removal of fibroid tumors (250 grams or less) of uterus.
Removal of implanted catheter in spinal canal.
Nasal procedure.
Reproductive hormone panel (estradiol).
Measurement and recording of externally evoked brain processing function using magnetic fields.
Incision of lower jaw bone.
Removal of growth of tissue of mouth.
Extraction, erupted tooth or exposed root (elevation and/or forceps removal).
Reconstruction of bile duct.
Eyelid procedure.
Removal of tissue and/or bone at elbow with tendon repair, open procedure.
Measurement and graphic recording of amount and speed of breathed air over 30-day period.
Removal or scraping of cyst or growth of thigh bone with patient-derived bone graft.
High dose brachytherapy through skin surface, 2 channels or more than 2.0 cm.
Injection, fondaparinux sodium, 0.5 mg.
Drainage of infected fluid-filled sac (bursa) of leg or ankle.
Tying of esophageal veins using an endoscope.
Removal of (less than 5 centimeters) growth of neck or front of chest.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) tissue growth of back or flank.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) tissue growth of back or flank.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) tissue growth of shoulder area.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) tissue growth of shoulder area.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) tissue growth of upper arm or elbow.
Removal (3 centimeters or greater) tissue growth at forearm and/or wrist.
Removal of salivary gland growth or salivary gland, lateral lobe.
Repair of finger or toe nail bed with graft.
Repair of prosthetic device, repair or replace minor parts.
Repair prosthetic device, labor component, per 15 minutes.
Unlisted procedure for miscellaneous prosthetic services.
Transmitting coil for use with cochlear implant device, replacement.
Transmitter cable for use with cochlear implant device, replacement.
Cochlear implant, external speech processor and controller, integrated system, replacement.
Zinc air battery for use with cochlear implant device and auditory osseointegrated sound processors, replacement, each.
Lithium ion battery for use with cochlear implant device speech processor, ear level, replacement, each.
Cochlear implant, external controller component, replacement.
Transmitting coil and cable, integrated, for use with cochlear implant device, replacement.
Auditory osseointegrated device, external sound processor, replacement.
"Orthotic and prosthetic supply, accessory, and/or service component of another hcpcs ""l"" code".
Respiratory inhaled aerosol treatment to relieve airway obstruction.
Drainage of cyst of the esophagus, stomach, and/or upper small bowel using an endoscope.
Conforming bandage, non-elastic, knitted/woven, non-sterile, width less than three inches, per yard.
Removal of neck lymph nodes.
Posterior chamber intraocular lens.
Insertion of electrodes to outer layer of heart, open procedure.
Removal of eye contents with insertion of implant.
Dialysis services (4 or more physician visits per month), patient 12-19 years of age.
Home dialysis services per month, patient 12-19 years of age.
Incision of Achilles tendon, accessed through the skin using local anesthetic.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (lower leg to lower leg artery).
Reoperation of upper or lower leg artery more than 1 month after original operation.
Removal of growth of sclera.
Insertion of probe for salivary gland duct dilation.
Implantation of cranial nerve neurostimulator electrodes and generator.
Indium in-111 oxyquinoline, diagnostic, per 0.5 millicurie.
Anesthesia for procedure on hip joint using an endoscope.
Drainage of abscess, cyst, or blood accumulation under lower teeth.
Methyl aminolevulinate (mal) for topical administration, 16.8%, 1 gram.
Diagnostic insertion of small bowel tube and multiple specimen collection using imaging guidance.
Insertion of radioactive substance of the bladder and bladder canal (urethra) using an endoscope.
Removal of abnormally thickened tissue in penis with greater than 5 centimeter graft.
Closure of large or small bowel opening with bowel removal and reattachment.
Removal of implanted eardrum tube under anesthesia.
Lengthening of esophagus.
Transplantation of stem cells to cornea.
Injection of agent to destroy rib nerve.
Occlusion of head or neck artery, accessed through the skin.
Insertion of catheter into airway of lung for brush biopsy.
Analysis for antibody to Yersinia (bacteria).
Incision to repair wrist joint.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) muscle growth in abdominal wall.
Creation of opening or partial removal of sac that covers the heart using an endoscope.
Insertion of left heart electrode with attachment to pacemaker or pacing defibrillator device.
Prolonged office or other outpatient service by clinical staff - each additional 30 minutes.
Fixation of rectum to sacrum, open abdominal procedure.
Removal of lip with skin flap repair.
Creation of spinal fluid shunt, accessed through the skin.
Removal of chest cavity and lung lining.
Incision or removal of ear bone with insertion of prosthesis.
Injection, iron-based magnetic resonance contrast agent, per ml.
Exploration, biopsy, or removal of loose or foreign body of knee.
Repair of membrane covering the brain.
Reconstruction and (up to 5 centimeter in diameter) graft of skull bone defect.
Reconstruction and (larger than 5 centimeter in diameter) graft of skull bone defect.
Removal of brain and spinal fluid shunt system.
Insertion of catheter into right and left heart chambers for evaluation of congenital abnormalities.
Aspiration and/or drainage of blood accumulation in brain.
Screening cytopathology, cervical or vaginal (any reporting system), collected in preservative fluid, automated thin layer preparation, with manual screening and rescreening by cytotechnologist under physician supervision.
Injection of chemical for destruction of eye muscle.
Analysis for antibody to Trichinella (worm parasite).
Mechanical separation of plasma and abnormal antibodies from blood.
Removal of upper spine bone and growth.
Implantation and removal of trial spinal neurostimulator electrode arrays, accessed through the skin or open procedure.
Upper jaw and facial prosthesis procedure.
Ez-derm, per square centimeter.
Removal of foot bone at fifth toe joint.
Insertion of electrode for permanent pacemaker or pacing defibrillator device.
Removal of tailbone.
Injection, rasburicase, 0.5 mg.
X-ray of mastoid, minimum of 3 views per side.
Glucosidase (sugar enzyme) measurement.
Male genital system procedure.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of vein of both kidneys.
Somatostatin (growth hormone inhibitor) level.
Antibody level measurement.
Skin, mucus membrane and beneath the skin procedure.
Relocation of muscles of shoulder or upper arm.
Partial removal of bone and/or release of upper spinal cord or spinal nerves.
Injection or mechanical removal of spinal canal scar tissue, percutaneous procedure, accessed through the skin, multiple sessions over 2 or more days.
Removal of wrist bone cyst or growth.
Partial removal of hand bone.
Creation of multiple tissue skin graft.
Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) (hypothalamus hormone) stimulation panel, 1 hour.
Gonadotropin, chorionic (reproductive hormone) measurement.
Analysis for antibody to Cryptococcus (yeast).
Analysis for antibody to Human T-cell lymphotropic virus, type 1 (HTLV-1).
Analysis for antibody to Nocardia (bacteria).
Detection test for adenovirus (virus).
Vocal cord injection using an endoscope.
Insertion of radiation delivery device into heart artery via catheter.
Insertion of probe into esophagus for recording of electrical impulses to upper or lower heart.
Dressing change and/or removal of burn tissue (greater than 10% total body surface).
Incision and drainage of infected thyroid duct cyst.
Transplantation of donor bone marrow or blood-derived stem cells.
Abdominal ultrasound of pregnant uterus (less than 14 weeks 0 days) single or first fetus.
Removal of foot bone.
Incision of penile foreskin.
Repair of joint capsule of hand and finger.
Injection, leuprolide acetate (for depot suspension), per 3.75 mg.
Technetium tc-99m pyrophosphate, diagnostic, per study dose, up to 25 millicuries.
Multianalyte assay procedure with algorithmic analysis.
Removal of plaque of major coronary artery or branch, accessed through the skin.
Human placental lactogen (placental hormone) level.
Anesthesia for open total ankle joint replacement.
Repair of bladder canal (urethra) and urinary opening.
Biopsy of finger joint.
Placement of skin and bone flap with microvascular connection.
Revision of attachment of stomach to small bowel.
Repair of tissue loss of finger or toe.
Injection of agent to destroy sacral nerve bundle.
Removal of multiple foot bones.
Diagnostic eye examination under general anesthesia.
Anesthesia for removal of lower leg vein obstruction.
Biopsy of tissue or muscle of lower leg or ankle.
Removal (1.5 centimeters or greater) muscle growth of hand or finger.
Release of multiple foot tendons.
Daily management of external vein to artery blood circulation in heart and lungs using a pump.
Removal of small bowel polyps or growths using an endoscope.
5% dextrose in lactated ringers infusion, up to 1000 cc.
Application of cast to finger.
Impression and custom preparation of lower jaw bone prosthesis.
Impression and custom preparation of prosthesis for roof of mouth enlargement.
Fusion of spine bones for correction of deformity, anterior approach, 2 to 3 vertebral segments.
Revision of shunt to improve eye fluid flow.
Intestine imaging.
X-ray of small intestine by small bowel tube.
Incision of hip tendon, accessed through the skin.
Repair of fibrous tissue of foot using an endoscope.
Injection, ipilimumab, 1 mg.
Procedure for gastrointestinal diagnosis.
Measurement of curvature of cornea with contact lens fitting.
Closed treatment of shoulder dislocation with manipulation.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (aorta to upper leg and opposite upper leg artery).
Removal of blood clot and portion of artery of groin.
X-ray of teeth, single view.
Injection, calcitriol, 0.1 mcg.
Removal of sacral spine bone and growth.
Chemotherapy injection into brain through reservoir beneath the skin.
Removal of nasal sinus growths.
Repair to increase depth on one side of the mouth.
Repair to increase depth on both sides of the mouth.
Removal of chest cavity lining.
Vaginal removal of uterus and vagina with repair of herniated bowel into rectum or vagina.
Spinal puncture in upper spine with injection of substance.
Nuclear medicine study of liver with blood flow.
Removal of gallbladder with exploration of common bile duct using endoscope.
Release of ear bone.
Removal of kidney foreign body or stone using an endoscopy which is inserted through an already created kidney opening.
Creation of large bowel opening using an endoscope.
Detection test for HIV-2 virus.
Removal (less than 5 centimeters) muscle growth of back or flank.
Fusion of middle spine bones with removal of disc, anterior approach.
Release of middle spinal cord and/or nerves.
Removal of middle spine bone with release of spinal cord and/or nerves, lateral extracavitary approach.
Incision of tendon located from elbow to shoulder, open procedure.
Insertion of amniotic membrane to eye surface with sutures.
Plastic repair of anal stricture, adult.
Repair of non-healed shin bone with graft from hip or other bone.
Insertion of vein patch at lowest portion of bypass graft.
Incision to repair wrist joint with repair of cartilage.
Partial removal of forearm bone.
Removal of polyp of external ear.
Harvest of rib cartilage for grafting.
Biopsy of breast, open procedure.
Removal of bony growths of ear canal.
Incision of finger tendon, accessed through the skin.
Aspiration of spinal fluid for diagnosis from skull soft spot, burr hole, or catheter in brain.
Zinc paste impregnated bandage, non-elastic, knitted/woven, width greater than or equal to three inches and less than five inches, per yard.
Repair of ruptured Achilles tendon, open or through skin procedure.
Measurement of curvature of the cornea with contact lens fitting.
Removal of blood clot from eye.
Closed treatment of jaw temporomandibular joint (TMJ) dislocation.
Removal of tissue and muscle growth of mouth.
Hypnotherapy.
Detection test for bordetella pertussis or parapertussis (respiratory bacteria).
Removal of (less than 5 centimeters) tissue growth of pelvis or hip.
Drainage or biopsy of brain or lesion.
Exploration of the brain.
Relocation of patient skin to forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, and/or feet.
Cathepsin-D (enzyme) level.
Removal of membrane covering of ankle joint.
Removal of heel bone spur.
Assessment of antibody to human leukocyte antigens (HLA) with antibody identification by qualitative panel using complete HLA phenotypes, HLA class I.
Assessment of antibody to human leukocyte antigens (HLA) with antibody identification by qualitative panel using complete HLA phenotypes, HLA class II.
Incision of iris to improve eye fluid flow.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) tissue growth of pelvis or hip.
Open treatment of broken ribs with insertion of hardware.
Revision of shunt from jugular vein to abdominal cavity.
Collection of donor stem cells for transplantation.
Instillations of drug into kidney and/or urinary duct (ureter).
Removal of tumor urinary duct (ureter) or kidney using an endoscope.
Incision of artery in one groin for insertion of prosthesis, open procedure.
Self-adherent bandage, elastic, non-knitted/non-woven, width less than three inches, per yard.
Gene analysis (UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1 family, polypeptide A1) common variants.
Physical medicine service or procedure.
Injection of chemical for destruction of underarm sweat glands.
Destruction of polyps or growths of large bowel using an endoscope.
Excision of abnormal anal drainage tract.
Repair of anal tear with dilation of anal muscle.
Removal of calcium deposits at rotator cuff tendons, open procedure.
Incision and exploration of wrist joint.
Removal of tendon of palm.
Insertion of catheters into breast for radiation therapy with or after breast removal using imaging guidance.
Removal of foot tendon.
Matristem micromatrix, 1 mg.
Matristem wound matrix, per square centimeter.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of repair of artery of pelvis procedure.
Assessment of air leak, airway sizing, and insertion of bronchial valves in lung airways using an endoscope.
Incision of tendon of thigh or hamstring muscles, accessed through the skin.
Creation of eye fluid drainage tract with removal of iris.
Repair of blood vessel of neck.
Removal and replacement of indwelling stent in urinary duct (ureter) including radiological supervision and interpretation, accessed through the skin.
Injection, risperidone, long acting, 0.5 mg.
Battery, other than lithium-ion, for use with electric or electric/pneumatic ventricular assist device, replacement only.
Injection, acetylcysteine, 100 mg.
Aspiration of blood accumulation or cyst in brain.
Application of allergenic extract skin patch, exposure to ultraviolet light, and reaction analysis.
Insulin-induced C-peptide (protein) suppression panel.
Detection test for Mycobacteria species (bacteria).
Incision and drainage of eye fluid accumulation in iris.
Chemotherapy into a lesion, more than 7 lesions.
Suture of perforated ulcer, wound, or injury of stomach or upper small bowel.
X-ray of jaw joint on one side of the face.
Removal of bone and growth in cavity behind eye.
Creation of stomach feeding tube, open procedure.
Transfer of skin flap to forehead, cheeks, chin, neck, underarms, genitals, hands, or feet.
Procedure to reduce overcorrection of drooping or paralyzed upper eyelid.
Casting or strapping procedure.
Scraping of multiple skin growths.
Partial removal of ankle joint lining using an endoscope.
Placement of external devices to assist circulation.
Removal of abdominal lining, uterus, and both ovaries and fallopian tubes.
Injection, dexamethasone acetate, 1 mg.
Total removal of thyroid lobe on one side of the neck plus partial removal of thyroid lobe on the opposite side of the neck including the tissue in between.
Lidocaine level.
Partial removal of roof of mouth.
Partial removal of throat.
Removal of engorged hemorrhoid.
Dialysis training, patient helper, course not completed.
Removal of anterior spinal instrumentation.
Psychoanalysis.
Injection of substance into spinal canal to destroy nerve tissue.
Procedure, service, or report.
Repair of defect for single channel outlet of rectum, vagina, and urinary tract.
Removal of pancreatic tissue.
Stereotactic creation of brainstem lesion, accessed through the skin.
Shortening of tendon of hand or finger.
Bile duct procedure.
Closed treatment of broken forearm bone.
Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single treatment area, use of multiple blocks: up to 5 mev.
Nuclear medicine study of respiratory systems.
Therapy for reduction of lower heart chamber defect via catheter accessed through the skin.
Destruction of pudendal (external genital) nerve.
Injection, immune globulin/hyaluronidase, (hyqvia), 100 mg immuneglobulin.
Removal of bone defect of shin and/or ankle using an endoscope.
Brush biopsy - transepithelial sample collection.
Gene analysis (breast cancer 1 and 2) variants.
Gene analysis (breast cancer 1) known familial variant.
Gene analysis (breast cancer 2) known familial variant.
Gene analysis (mutL homolog 1, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 2) duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (mutS homolog 6 [E coli]) known familial variants.
Gene analysis (postmeiotic segregation increased 2 [S cerevisiae]) duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (peripheral myelin protein 22), full sequence analysis.
Repair of abnormal heart artery.
Detection test for E. coli, (escherichia coli 0157).
Functional MRI scan of brain with physician or psychologist administration of neurofunctional testing.
Insertion of needle or catheter into aorta.
Puncture of neck and windpipe cartilage for aspiration and/or injection, accessed through the skin.
Venography for blood clot in vein, one leg or arm.
Repair of paraesophageal hernia with mesh implant.
Assessment of expressive and receptive speech with interpretation and report per hour.
Evaluation of non-cardiac chest pain using esophageal balloon.
Destruction of localized lesion of choroid (for example, choroidal neovascularization); photocoagulation, feeder vessel technique (one or more sessions).
Brachytherapy source, stranded, cesium-131, per source.
Brachytherapy source, non-stranded, cesium-131, per source.
Injection, milrinone lactate, 5 mg.
Repair of diseased or bulging (aneurysm) artery of upper thigh.
Destruction of 1 or more liver growths, accessed through the skin.
Analysis for antibody to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
Application of moveable, hinged short arm splint (forearm to hand).
Pinworm test.
Insertion of shunts to bypass blood flow to liver using imaging guidance.
Exploration of penetrating wound of arm or leg.
Procedure on abdomen, muscle or bone.
Unusual travel.
Hearing test in a booth.
Anterior (front) eye procedure.
Incision to release tissue and muscle of sole of foot.
Urinary duct (ureter) procedure using an endoscope.
Aspiration of fluid by spinal puncture in upper spine.
Incision and repair of knee cartilage.
Examination of jaw joint using an endoscope.
Insertion of internal hardware using an endoscope to treat a broken wrist.
Luteinizing releasing factor (reproductive hormone) level.
Repair of wound (over 30.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, underarms, genitals, trunk, arms and/or legs.
Removal of foreign material from skin and tissue at open fracture and/or dislocation.
Opening in chest with biopsy of growths in one lung.
Suture of tendon below knee.
Assessment of erectile dysfunction including injection of drugs into the penis.
Assessment of penile blood flow.
Injection, chorionic gonadotropin, per 1,000 usp units.
Revision of thigh bone prosthesis.
Radiation treatment delivery, 2 separate treatment areas, 3 or more ports on a single treatment area, use of multiple blocks: 11-19 mev.
Removal of diseased or fractured portion of lower jaw bone.
Removal of salivary gland under floor of mouth.
Removal of throat tissue.
Galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (enzyme) level.
Thyroxine (thyroid chemical) level.
Radiation treatment delivery, single treatment area,single port or parallel opposed ports, simple blocks or no blocks: 11-19 mev.
Removal of plaque from pulmonary (lung) artery on heart-lung machine.
Pulmonary service or operation.
Gene analysis (colorectal cancer).
Analysis for antibody to Human T-cell lymphotropic virus, type 2 (HTLV-2).
Removal of deep foreign body in muscle or tendon.
Repair of finger tendon.
Open treatment of broken finger or thumb.
Amputation of finger or thumb.
Closed treatment of broken heel bone.
Removal of end portion of stomach with attachment to small bowel.
Removal of nasal polyps.
Removal of (less than 5 centimeters) muscle growth of leg or ankle.
Implantation or replacement of permanent ventricular pacemaker.
Removal or scraping of cyst or growth of thigh bone.
Gene analysis (breast and related cancers), duplication or deletion variants.
Gene analysis (neuroendocrine tumors), genomic sequence.
Gene analysis (neuroendocrine tumors), duplication and deletion variants.
Procainamide level.
Aspiration of bladder using catheter or trocar.
Repair of rectal prolapse using an endoscope.
Ethosuximide level.
Androstanediol glucuronide (hormone) level.
Cyanide measurement.
Analysis for antibody to Leptospira.
Analysis for antibody to Plasmodium (malaria parasite).
Detection test for parainfluenza virus.
Detection test for adenovirus enteric types 40/41.
Detection test for Hepatitis D.
Detection test for Streptococcus, group B (bacteria).
Anesthesia for removal of blood clot from upper arm or elbow artery.
Insertion dilator device into cervix.
Insertion of tube open procedure for external blood circulation in heart and lungs using a pump patient 6 years and older.
Implantation or replacement of neurostimulator electrodes in upper stomach using an endoscope.
Salivary gland or duct procedure.
Testing of lung tumor cells for prediction of survival.
Detection test for HIV-2.
Biopsy of ear canal.
Repair of leg tissue defect.
Repair of disruption of both collateral ligaments of ankle.
Incision of shin bone.
Release of multiple tendons in foot.
Incision to repair ankle joint bone.
Relocation of patient skin to nose, ears, eyelids, and/or lips.
Studies of the spontaneous stomach movement function.
Study of movement of the upper small bowel (duodenum).
Removal of uterine tubes and ovaries.
Removal of growth of dental bone.
Application of long leg cast (thigh to toes).
Removal of multiple wrist bones.
Incision of tendon of hand or finger, open procedure.
Removal of foreign bodies in large bowel using an endoscope.
Transfer of muscle to thigh bone at hip joint.
Incision of pelvic bone.
Repair of non-healed fracture of thigh bone with patient-derived bone graft.
Injection, cabazitaxel, 1 mg.
Nuclear medicine study of kidney.
Balloon dilation treatment of stricture of urinary duct (ureter) using imaging guidance with radiological supervision and interpretation.
Anesthesia for spinal tap.
Theraskin, per square centimeter.
Injection, progesterone, per 50 mg.
Removal of bladder, urinary ducts (ureters).
Evaluation of hearing function brain responses.
Thiocyanate (organic sulfur substance) level.
Injection, ocriplasmin, 0.125 mg.
Repair of upper eyelid muscle to correct drooping or paralysis.
Placement of graft for repair of aorta with radiological supervision and interpretation, with 2 artery prostheses.
Incision of ear canal with release of scar tissue.
Repair of membrane opening of middle to inner ear.
Partial removal of upper arm bone.
Removal of shoulder joint lining.
Emergent surgical opening of windpipe through neck for insertion of breathing tube.
Fusion of middle spine bones with removal of disc, lateral approach.
Microscopic examination of esophagus using an endoscope.
Fusion of spine bones for correction of deformity, anterior approach, 4 to 7 vertebral segments.
Injection, radiesse, 0.1 ml.
Anesthesia for procedure on pelvic bone.
Placement of graft for repair of aorta with radiological supervision and interpretation, with 4 or more artery prostheses.
Imaging of esophagus done from the inside of the esophagus.
Injection of alcohol into cavity behind eye.
Catheter instillations of agent onto lung lining to break up scar tissue.
Removal of mammary implant material.
Insertion of bone graft onto skull.
Reproductive hormone panel (testosterone).
Anesthesia for surgery on mouth.
Closed treatment of broken tailbone.
Impression and custom preparation of speech aid prosthesis.
Recording of electrical activity of stomach with administration of drug.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of arteries of both lungs.
Removal of growth of tongue and/or vocal cord stripping using an endoscope.
Cutting of strands of eye fluid (vitreous) between the lens and retina.
Neox 1k, per square centimeter.
White blood cell function measurement.
Removal of diseased tissue or growths in multiple nasal sinuses on one side of face.
Closed treatment of dislocated hand joint with manipulation under anesthesia.
Closed treatment of dislocated finger joint with manipulation under anesthesia.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of lymphatic system of one arm or leg.
Removal of cartilage attaching the tongue.
Severing of muscle at upper esophagus.
Biopsy of roof of mouth.
Insertion of brain drainage catheter or fluid pressure recording or monitoring device.
Injection, topotecan, 0.1 mg.
Application of low cost skin substitute graft to trunk, arms, legs, total wound surface area up to 100 sq cm; first 25 sq cm or less wound surface area.
Incision of spine to correct deformity at upper spinal column.
Insertion of catheter into right upper heart chamber for evaluation of congenital abnormalities.
Removal of spinal canal drug infusion pump or device, accessed beneath the skin.
Transplant of lung.
Preparation of one lung from a cadaver.
Supervision and interpretation of ultrasound of digestive tract using an endoscope.
Anesthesia for procedure on ankle and/or foot using an endoscope.
Insertion of hardware to toe joint dislocation with manipulation, accessed through the skin.
Removal of scar tissue in rectum.
Injection, theophylline, per 40 mg.
Removal of inflatable bladder canal (urethra) or bladder neck sphincter.
Technical component for assessment of field of vision with concurrent data analysis and data storage with patient initiated data transmitted to a remote surveillance center for up to 30 days.
Suture of wound or injury of kidney.
Large bowel procedure.
Pooling of platelets or other blood products.
Phenylalanine, PKU (amino acid) level.
Fusion of finger joint with bone graft.
Plastic repair of uterine opening.
Re-exploration of spine repair with release of upper spinal cord or nerves.
Removal of blood flow assist device in aorta, open procedure.
Removal of foreign body in tissue or muscle of pelvis or hip.
Injection, acetaminophen, 10 mg.
Injections of lower or sacral spine joint or nerves using ultrasound guidance.
Balloon catheter opening of major lung artery (pulmonary), accessed through the skin.
Xylose (carbohydrate) absorption test of blood and/or urine.
Injection, haloperidol, up to 5 mg.
Mitomycin, ophthalmic, 0.2 mg.
Prosthetic repair of elbow joint.
Bone graft of pelvic bone with microvascular connection.
Removal of blood clot of arterial or venous graft.
Drainage of rectal abscess.
Injection, methadone hcl, up to 10 mg.
Insertion of external tube from artery to vein for dialysis.
Insertion of probe into esophagus for recording and pacing upper or lower heart rhythm.
Neck or chest procedure.
Screening cytopathology smears, cervical or vaginal, performed by automated system under physician supervision.
Exchange blood transfusion.
Removal (5 centimeters or greater) muscle growth of pelvis or hip.
Closure of large or small bowel opening.
Removal or destruction of prolapsed bladder canal (urethra).
Preparation of donor pancreas for transplantation.
Transplantation of donor pancreas.
Ingestion of test items for allergies.
Partial removal of chest bone.
Biopsy or foreign body removal in small bowel.
Removal of growth of floor of mouth.
Anesthesia for procedure on knee arteries.
Partial removal of large bowel with creation of small or large bowel opening.
Removal of large bowel with attachment of small bowel to rectum or creation of small bowel opening.
Analysis for antibody to Listeria monocytogenes (bacteria).
Anchoring of biceps tendon at elbow.
Incision of multiple tendons of thigh or hamstring muscles, accessed through the skin.
Removal of total salivary gland growth or salivary gland and surrounding lymph nodes on one side of neck.
Removal of foreign body from voice box using an endoscope with operating microscope or telescope.
Incision, aspiration, and inflation of eardrum under anesthesia.
Mapcp demonstration - state provided services.
Mapcp demonstration - physician incentive pool.
Resuture of bladder neck to vaginal wall and pubic bone with bladder canal suspension.
Suture of wound, injury, or rupture of the bladder.
Removal or destruction of cervix.
Fixation of rectum to sacrum with removal of large bowel, open abdominal procedure.
Gene analysis (mutL homolog 1, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 2) known familial variants.
Injection, triamcinolone diacetate, per 5mg.
Repair of wound (12.6 to 20.0 centimeters) of neck, hands, feet, and/or genitals.
Insertion of device to block groin artery.
Anesthesia for open repair of pelvic fracture.
Injection, immune globulin, (flebogamma/flebogamma dif), intravenous, non-lyophilized (e.g., liquid), 500 mg.
Replacement of aortic valve with prosthetic valve on heart-lung machine.
Closed treatment of broken nasal bone.
Closed treatment of broken great toe with manipulation.
Injection for X-ray imaging of hinged joint of upper and lower jaw bones.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of jaw joint.
Hand or finger procedure.
Creation of a tear drainage tract to the nasal cavity with insertion of tube or stent.
X-ray of bone at base of skull.
Initiation of external vein to artery blood circulation in heart and lungs using a pump.
Laser destruction of anal growths.
Semen evaluation volume, sperm count, motility and analysis.
Incision of bladder with destruction of growths and/or insertion of radioactive material.
Test for detecting genes associated with heart diseases.
Insertion of pacing defibrillator pulse generator with existing dual leads.
Cystourethroscopy, with insertion of transprostatic implant; 1 to 3 implants.
Exploration of upper thigh artery.
Injection of anesthetic agent, sacral nerve bundle.
Nuclear medicine limited study for thyroid cancer.
Measurement of curvature of cornea with contact lens fitting to cornea and sclera.
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level, amniotic fluid.
Tissue culture for disorders of amniotic fluid or placenta cells.
Chromosome analysis of amniotic fluid or placenta for genetic defects.
Repair of hinged joint of upper and lower jaw bones.
Follow-up or repeat ultrasound of fetal heart blood flow.
Placement of stent on esophagus using an endoscope.
Cromolyn sodium, inhalation solution, fda-approved final product, non-compounded, administered through dme, unit dose form, per 10 milligrams.
Ocular implant.
Amputation of hand bone, finger, or thumb.
Partial removal of spine bone and growth at upper spinal column.
Implantation of brain catheter, reservoir, EEG electrodes, pressure or other monitoring device.
Removal of lymph nodes from chin to thyroid cartilage.
Closed treatment of broken toe with manipulation.
Thigh or knee procedure.
Chloramphenicol level.
Quinine (drug) level.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of artery of one adrenal gland.
Radiological supervision and interpretation of imaging of arteries of both adrenal glands.
Cystine and homocystine (amino acids) analysis.
Repair of diseased or bulging (aneurysm) artery of abdominal organ.
Bypass of diseased or blocked artery (aorta to groin to opposite groin artery).
Placement of soft tissue localization device accessed through the skin with imaging guidance, first lesion.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of penis.
X-ray of breast bone, minimum of 2 views.
Cast supplies, long leg cylinder cast, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Injection of dye for X-ray imaging of elbow joint.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of elbow.
Suture of recent wound of the eyelid involving lid margin.
Injection, methyldopate hcl, up to 250 mg.
Partial removal of lower esophagus.
Lower arm or wrist procedure.
Release of muscles of palm.
Removal or scraping of bone cyst or growth of heel bone.
CT scan of middle spine before and after contrast.
Repair of abnormal artery-vein connection in arms or legs.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin of shoulder area.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin at forearm and/or wrist.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin of thigh or knee.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth beneath the skin of leg or ankle.
Skin test for coccidioidomycosis (fungal infection).
Removal or destruction of growth of tongue lymph node.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth of pelvis or hip.
Partial removal of bone and/or release of middle spinal cord or spinal nerves.
Antimicrobial study, mycobacteria (TB organism family).
Removal of small bone underlying long bone of foot at toe joint.
Creation of abdominal cavity catheter exit site.
Removal of lining covering abdominal organs.
Injection, cidofovir, 375 mg.
Medical nutrition therapy, reassessment and subsequent intervention(s) following second referral in same year for change in diagnosis, medical condition, or treatment regimen (including additional hours needed for renal disease), group (2 or more individua.
Moderate compression bandage, elastic, knitted/woven, load resistance of 1.25 to 1.34 foot pounds at 50% maximum stretch, width greater than or equal to three inches and less than five inches, per yard.
Measurement of growth hormone antibody.
Administration of medication through breathing tube.
Insertion or replacement of defibrillator with electrode.
Injection, secretin, synthetic, human, 1 microgram.
Anesthesia for procedure on windpipe and lung airway.
Reconstruction of midface bones.
Insertion of prosthetic material to enlarge cheek bone.
Open treatment of fracture at roof of mouth or cheek bone.
Open treatment of broken jaw or cheek bone.
Repair of protruding ear.
Anesthesia for procedure to remove blood collection in brain.
Genetic profiling on oncology biopsy lesions.
Removal of embedded foreign body from soft tissue of tooth bearing bone.
X-ray of skull.
Measurement and recording of brain wave (EEG) activity, cerebral death evaluation.
Anesthesia for procedure on esophagus.
Destruction of multiple penile growths.
Sputum specimen collection.
Repair of blood vessel of arm with graft.
Anesthesia for removal of breast bone tissue.
Diagnostic neurological or neuromuscular procedure.
Closed treatment of broken ankle with manipulation.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) muscle growth at forearm and/or wrist.
Reconstruction of knee joint ligaments.
Injection, mechlorethamine hydrochloride, (nitrogen mustard), 10 mg.
Chemical peel of skin.
Repair of thigh bone with insertion of rod.
Surgical pathology procedure.
Insertion of catheter into urinary duct (ureter) and biopsy of urinary duct and/or renal pelvis using an endoscope.
Biopsy or removal of breast lymph nodes, open procedure.
Implanted pressure sensor study of bulging blood vessel sac (aneurysm) after endovascular repair.
Removal of ankle implant.
Insertion of hardware to shin bone.
Removal of multiple small or large bowel growths.
Removal of intact breast implant.
Growth hormone stimulation panel.
Mononucleosis antibody level.
Anesthesia for procedure on veins of forearm, wrist, and hand.
Anesthesia for open procedure at kneecap and upper foreleg bones.
Insertion of stents in lung airways using an endoscope.
Radiopharmaceutical, therapeutic, not otherwise classified.
Glutathione reductase (enzyme) level.
Injection, voriconazole, 10 mg.
Closed treatment of dislocated foot bone under anesthesia.
Removal of foreign body from inside the eye or lens.
Removal of foreign body from inside eye.
Partial removal of wrist joint lining using an endoscope.
Incision of pelvis and/or hip joint bone.
Transfer of nerve to injured nerve, first stage.
Release of nasal scar tissue.
Removal of excessive skin of lower eyelid and fat around eye.
Colorectal cancer screening; alternative to g0105, screening colonoscopy, barium enema..
Middle ear procedure.
Treatment of broken foot bone.
Influenza virus vaccine, split virus, for intramuscular use (agriflu).
Three-dimensional, video-taped, computer-based gait analysis during walking.
Introduction of pigment into skin to correct color defect.
Tying external carotid artery.
Opening in chest with biopsy of fluid collection in one lung.
Injection, ustekinumab, 1 mg.
Repair of electrode for permanent pacemaker or defibrillator device.
Exploration of shoulder joint.
Injection, amphotericin b, 50 mg.
Balloon dilation of narrowed or blocked aorta, accessed through the skin.
Partial removal of leg bone.
Realignment of the eye by muscle fixation.
Realignment of eye with repair of detached eye muscles.
Biopsy of stomach.
Replacement of stimulator electrodes in upper stomach, open procedure.
Removal of lung growth and repair of chest wall.
Removal of air sac of lung using an endoscope.
Revision of small bowel opening and scar tissue release.
Reconstruction of small bowel opening.
Exploration of penetrating wound of abdomen, flank, or back.
Dark field microscopic examination for organism.
Drainage or removal of liver duct stone.
Repair of muscle tissue separating the chest and abdominal cavities.
V-shaped removal of lip tissue.
Administration of radiation therapy.
Incision to correct foot or ankle bones.
Destruction of growth of iris using laser.
flutemetamol f18 diagnostic.
Destruction of large bowel growths using an endoscope which is inserted through abdominal opening.
Abdominal exploration or removal of adrenal gland using an endoscope.
Lengthening or shortening of multiple tendons of leg or ankle.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth at forearm and/or wrist.
Open treatment of broken wrist.
Drainage of fluid-filled sac (bursa) of palm.
Removal (less than 3 centimeters) tissue growth of hand or finger.
Repair of eardrum, ear canal, and bones with insertion of prosthesis.
Prednisone, immediate release or delayed release, oral, 1 mg.
Headset/headpiece for use with cochlear implant device, replacement.
Microphone for use with cochlear implant device, replacement.
Lithium ion battery for use with cochlear implant device speech processor, other than ear level, replacement, each.
Incision of ankle joint capsule to correct foot deformity.
Open treatment of ankle dislocation.
Insertion of catheter into an artery of a lobe of the lung.
Culture of live tumor cells and chemotherapy drug response by staining.
Pathology tests.
Glutamate dehydrogenase (enzyme) measurement.
Electronic analysis and programming of implanted complex cranial neurostimulator generator system during or after surgery.
Application of needle electrodes to eye muscles with recording of muscle movement.
Removal of foreign body from voice box using an endoscope.
Repair of blood vessel of chest on heart-lung machine.
Removal of tongue, floor of mouth, and jaw bone.
Insertion of shunt from jugular vein to abdominal cavity.
Puncture aspiration of breast cyst.
Removal of multiple internal and external hemorrhoids with excision of abnormal anal drainage tract.
Examination of cervix using an endoscope with biopsy of uterine lining.
Destruction of kidney growths using an endoscope.
Partial removal of vaginal wall and surrounding tissue.
Treatment of broken shin bone.
Control of bleeding in chest using an endoscope.
Removal of cyst or growth from mid-chest cavity using an endoscope.
Removal of tumor below breast bone.
Platelets, leukocytes reduced, irradiated, each unit.
Removal of additional excessive skin and tissue beneath the skin of abdomen.
Repair of congenital nasal defect to lengthen tip of nose.
Removal of testis (testicle).
Reduction of size of the external female sexual organ (clitoris).
Repair of windpipe cartilage by insertion of splint or graft.
Incision, exploration, and removal of foreign body of upper or lower heart chamber.
Repair of wound (12.6 to 20.0 centimeters) of the scalp, neck, underarms, genitals, trunk, arms and/or legs.
Iodine i-131 iobenguane sulfate, diagnostic, per 0.5 millicurie.
Removal of implant material from outside the eye.
Anesthesia for suture of upper arm and elbow tendon to bone.
Angiotensin ll (protein) level.
Measurement of hemolysin (red blood cell destructive substance).
Probing of nasal-tear duct with balloon catheter dilation.
Cast supplies, long leg splint, adult (11 years +), plaster.
Open treatment of ankle dislocation with repair or internal or external hardware.
Protoporphyrin (metabolism substance) screening test.
Insulin tolerance panel for growth hormone deficiency.
Microbiology procedures.
Measurement of curvature of both corneas with contact lens fitting.
Insertion of needles or catheters into pelvic organs and/or genitals for radiation therapy.
X-ray of internal ear canal.
Non-cardiac vascular flow imaging.
Drainage of abscess or blood accumulation at forearm and/or wrist.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of uterine tubes and ovaries.
MRI scan bones of the eye, face, and/or neck with contrast.
Removal of tonsils, tissue, muscle, and bone.
Manipulation of hinged joints of upper and lower jaw bones under anesthesia.
Insertion of stents in blood vessel of head.
Diagnostic insertion of stomach tube and multiple aspirations of gastric contents.
Repair of mucous lining of nasal passage with graft.
Closed treatment of broken wrist bone.
Removal of congenital defect of lymph nodes at underarm or neck.
Removal of joint joining rib and spine bone.
Repair of eardrum and ear canal with removal of mastoid bone.
Albumin (protein) level related to restricted heart blood flow.
HLA Class I typing high resolution.
Exposure of skin surface by creation of an opening in cast.
Reshaping of tooth bone.
Surgical removal of erupted tooth requiring removal of bone and/or sectioning of tooth, and including elevation of mucoperiosteal flap if indicated.
Abdominal removal of uterus and cervix with repair of vaginal defect.
Removal of ocular implant.
Post-delivery care.
Insertion of hardware to foot joint dislocation with manipulation, accessed through the skin.
Insertion of tube accessed through the skin for external blood circulation in heart and lungs using a pump patient 6 years and older.
Insertion of tube accessed through the chest for external blood circulation in heart and lungs using a pump patient 6 years and older.
Stereotactic biopsy, aspiration, or excision of brain lesion.
Burr hole exploration of the brain.
Reshaping of (larger than 5 centimeter in diameter) skull bone defect.
Transfer of skin flap to trunk.
Placement of breast localization devices accessed through the skin with MRI guidance.
Neurofunctional testing during functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain.
Removal of prostate gland, glands for sperm movement (semen), and sperm duct.
Destruction of trigeminal (facial) nerve branch under X-ray monitoring.
Diagnostic insertion of small bowel tube and specimen collection using imaging guidance.
Gene analysis (postmeiotic segregation increased 2 [S cerevisiae]) known familiar variants.
Anesthesia for procedure in lower abdominal cavity and rectum including use of an endoscope.
Incision of tissue of rear muscle compartments of lower leg.
Amniomatrix or biodmatrix, injectable, 1 cc.
Injection of contrast for X-ray imaging of tear sac.
Radiological supervision and interpretation X-ray of tear drainage structure of eye.
Removal of foreign body from throat.
Indium in-111 labeled autologous white blood cells, diagnostic, per study dose.
